"Name";"Document";"Text"
"HBO Max";"About Us";"HBO Max is a direct-to-consumer streaming platform from Warner Bros. Discovery, offering best in class quality entertainment. HBO Max delivers the greatest array of series, movies and specials for audiences of all ages from the iconic brands of HBO, Warner Bros., and DC, as well as Max Originals, blockbuster films, and beloved kids and family content. The platform launched in the United States in May 2020 and introduced a lower priced, advertising-supported tier in June 2021. HBO Max began its global rollout launching in markets across Latin America and the Caribbean last summer, followed by its first European launches in the Nordics and Spain in the fall. Currently available in 61 countries, there are plans for continued expansion of HBO Max in 2022."
"HBO Max";"Advocacy and Inclusion";"COMMUNITY WE SHAPE OUR COMMUNITIES Equity, diversity, inclusion, and corporate social responsibility are moral and business imperatives. A strong organization recognizes that engaging in the fundamental issues of equality and fairness is not only the smart thing to do, but it is also the right thing to do. We see advocacy and inclusion as a key part to our success, and our approach to these critical issues are rooted in how we address our workforce, programs, content, suppliers, and community.  WarnerMedia at Pride Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion WarnerMedia is committed to diversity, equity and inclusion, as moral and business imperatives. It is essential that our workforce, content and creative partners reflect the diversity of our society and the world around us. Together, with other production companies, networks, guilds, unions, talent agencies and others in the industry, we all must ensure there is greater inclusion of women, people of color, the LGBTQ+ community, those with disabilities and other underrepresented groups in greater numbers both in front of and behind the camera. In September 2018, WarnerMedia announced a Production Diversity Policy which included the commitment to report on our diversity and inclusion efforts annually.  We are committed to preserving a culture of opportunity, inclusion and respect. At all levels of the company, we hold ourselves accountable through a performance management process that includes how we (individually and collectively) perform in the area of diversity and inclusion.  Please read our 2020-21 Diversity and Inclusion Report here.  Please read our 2018 Diversity and Inclusion Interim Report here.  Please read our 2020 UK Gender Pay Gap Report here.  Social Impact  WarnerMedia prides itself on being a pro-social force for good in our communities and our world. Our diverse and original content helps to deepen the conversation on issues that matter in society. We act ethically and with integrity and work to reduce our environmental impact as we serve an increasingly global audience. Across the board, we find ways to help develop the next generation of storytellers from diverse backgrounds. And our employees give back to those in our communities; civic engagement is a key part of our culture. Some recent social impact efforts include:  Civic Engagement Vote  Its critical that we take active roles in our communities. Being informed, engaged citizens helps ensure that we move forward as a society. Whether its filling out your census form, applying to vote, bringing others to the polls, or making sure youre aware of the issues of the day, WarnerMedia is here to help. Visit our civic engagement resource center to see how you can help move democracy forward.  COVID-19 DC Graphic superheroes  All of our lives have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Across our company and our brands, WarnerMedia is taking steps to mitigate the harm wherever we can. From supporting our productions that have taken an unexpected hiatus to making charitable donations to those similarly situated, weve been dutifully helping those in immediate need. Were also making sure our brands and our content can get to those who need it most while they remain home to save lives. And weve partnered with the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) to assist those who are struggling with depression and other forms of mental illness during these trying times. Please see our complete list of how were helping during this crisis here.  Pride  Via our programming, our culture, and our volunteerism, WarnerMedia has long been supporters of the LGBTQIA+ community. Learn how WarnerMedia celebrated Pride 2020 here.  Business Resource Groups  Our Business Resource Groups (BRGs) at WarnerMedia are built on the foundation of developing careers, fostering culture, and driving connection, and are led by our employees based on shared pursuits, purpose, identities and interests.  With scale, resources and access across our company, membership in a BRG allows members to transcend their daily roles and become part of a larger company-wide vision - defining the future of media.  Designed to propel our leaders to the next level, our groups drive business through recruitment, retention and audience wide engagement. And have the power to shape our culture and move people in lasting ways."
"HBO Max";"Technology and Innovation";"WarnerMedia is not only a first-in-class media company, but a robust technology organization that brings content to life in exciting new ways. We strive to give our fans a seamless experience with the content they love wherever, whenever and however they want. With our community of highly skilled, engaged and innovative technologists who solve problems WarnerMedia is building the tools that will run the future of entertainment.  PRODUCTION ENGINEERING CONSUMER AND DIGITAL PLATFORMS PRODUCT INNOVATION, MEDIA SUPPLY CHAIN AND CONTENT OPERATIONS DIRECT-TO-CUSTOMER TECHNOLOGY AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT ADVERTISING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY AND BUSINESS OPERATION DATA ANALYTICS ENTERPRISE AND WORKPLACE SOLUTIONS XANDR Technology WarnerMedia Technology & Operations (WMTO) encompasses all technology strategy, development and operations as well as shared services across WarnerMedia. It also encompasses the Xandr technology teams. The combination of Xandr and WarnerMedia technological expertise enables the company to create a better advertising value proposition for brands, publishers and consumers alike, as well as accelerate innovation for HBO Max in 2021.  WMTO uses data to help create, supplement and tune our product offerings, in particular our direct-to-consumer service, to give consumers what they want, driving customer acquisition, satisfaction, loyalty and retention. Combined with the power of AT&Ts network leadership, WarnerMedia is focused on creating new content and customer experiences through technologies like 5G, edge computing and artificial intelligence (AI).  Innovation  At WarnerMedia, not only are we passionate storytellers, we are innovators constantly striving to deliver our first in class content to consumers in the best and most engaging ways possible. We do this by not only focusing on what our fans want today, but by experimenting with innovations to prepare us for the consumers needs ten and twenty years down the road."
"HBO Max";"Equity and Inclusion Report 2020-21";"THE POWER OF STORIES Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 2020 didnt change our equity and inclusion strategy. It proved we had more to do... WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 2 / 105 May 29, 2020 Atlanta, GA In 2020, the world changed. The murder of George Floyd. The racial reckoning. The devastating impact of the pandemic around the globe.  WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 3 / 105  In 2020, we had a moment of reckoning. We tended to the needs of our employees. We supported and informed our storytellers.  Steven Universe Future finale (February 2020) WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 4 / 105  In societys aspiration to be color blind, the capability to talk about race was lost.  Lovecraft Country (Released August 2020)  WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 5 / 105  In 2020, we listened and understood. We sat with the pain, even though it was uncomfortable.  We Are Who We Are ( Released September 2020) WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 6 / 105 We all had to learn. We designed tools to help people grow. We created spaces to help people learn. We shared stories to help people connect.  Legendary (Released May 2020) WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 7 / 105 We wove equity and inclusion de eper into the core of what we do. Into decisions we are making. Into stories we are telling. Transhood ( Released November 2020) WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 8 / 105 Wonder Woman 1984 ( Released December 2020) We know that this is how we can engage the world and help build a more just society. We know this is how well win as a business.  WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 9 / 105  2020 didnt change our eq uity and inclusion strategy. It fueled it. WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 10 / 105 10 / 105 Communities The stories we tell impact our lives. Stories influence culture and they can build a world that is better informed and more compassionate. These past two years have also reminded us how essential stories are in providing some much-needed moments of comfort or diversion.  Who gets to tell our stories is critical. We know that talent is distributed equally across the population, but opportunities have not always been. Thats why, throughout this report, youll see how we endeavor to open those opportunities — across our workforce, our content, our pipeline programs and the work we do within our communities. Equity and inclusion are vital for our storytellers and, as so much research has shown, also necessary for our business growth. But true equity and inclusion is not about prescribing quotas. Rather, its about ongoing, measured and systemic change. Its about progress, not promises. A recent employee survey showed that our equity and inclusion work was one of the top-ranked reasons to work at WarnerMedia. We know we have much more work to do, but I am proud of the fact that our drive for equity and inclusion is becoming an essential part of who we are. Christy Haubegger EVP, Communications and Chief Inclusion Officer I BELIEVE IN THE POWER OF STORIES WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 11 / 105 COMMUNITIES Were standing up for what we believe in.  Heres how we supported our communities.  We helped kids understand gender pronouns.  We made childcare a priority.  And we opened our supplier list to our peers.  PAGES OF EQUITY AND INCLUSION...PROGRAMS.  Were investing in future talent.  WarnerMedia Access is opening more doors.  Were supporting local artists.  And were helping more ideas get to more platforms.  Heres how Cartoon Network is helping more women into the industry.  Claudia Forestieri.  CONTENT.  Everyone has a story.  Our 2020 production data.  We launched CNNs Race & Equality Unit.  70+ thrillers series, blockbusters, documentaries, comedies, cartoons, reporting, games, graphic novels and dramas that all demonstrate equity at the heart of our content.  WORKFORCE Were 30,000 changemakers across the world.  Our 2020 workforce data.  Meet our equity and inclusion leadership  Heres how were building a common language.  This is how were supporting our creative leaders.  Heres how were sharing our news with the world.  Whenever you see these icons, theres more to explore.  Watch the video Read more Listen to the podcast Join us on social Siempre, Luis Warrior New DC leadership Legendary Birds of Prey Robin Thede HBO Max WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 12 / 105 WERE 3 0,000 CHANGEMAKERS AROUND THE WORLD WERE 30,000 CHANGEMAKERS AROUND THE WORLD WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce WERE 3 0,000 CHANGEMAKERS AROUND THE WORLD WERE 30,000 CHANGEMAKERS AROUND THE WORLD Workforce  The opportunity for lasting change has never been greater. We need to listen so we are clearly aware of the unique inequities faced by different communities; we need to understand the data and historical context so we can unpack why these inequities exist in our industry; and we need to act with bold, intentional strategies to help to address inequities in our industry in a sustainable way. MyKhanh Shelton S VP, Workforce and Production 14 / 105 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce I ensured that our HBO executives who work in production received training to understand the issues our transgender and gender nonconforming colleagues and talent face. Ryan Hope Producer, HBO Inclusive strategies are imperative to delivering results, so weve transformed multicultural marketing into a top priority to help deliver the best box-office results. Terra Potts EVP Marketing Warner Bros. Pictures.  Every day, our people at WarnerMedia are helping us drive change. Here are a few of our changemakers in 2020. At HBO Max, weve been weaving E&I into our daily decision-making. So every time we staff a show, or open up our internships, were asking ourselves how can we be more equitable. This is how were working to create change across the spectrum.  Sarah Aubrey Head of Original Programming, HBO Max IM PASSIONATE ABOUT THE OPPORTUNITY GAMES PROVIDE TO BRING DIVERSE INTERACTIVE EXPERIENCES TO LIFE. WE COLLABORATE WITH CONSULTANTS TO WEAVE IN AUTHENTIC REPRESENTATION ACROSS CULTURES, GENDERS, LGBTQ+ AND DISABILITIES. Rob Shepherd Executive Producer Warner Bros. Games Its incredibly exciting to build alongside a technology team that is redefining the future of storytelling. But its even more inspiring to work alongside people who are committed to amplifying the voices around them. The support our AAPI community received this year is a great example of that.  Richard Tom Chief Technology Officer  Im so proud to be producing a Latin remake of Father of the Bride for Warner Bros. starring Andy Garcia and Gloria Estefan, which pays homage to my culture and heritage and at the same time is universally appealing to all audiences.  Paul Perez Founder Perez Pictures Diverse finance organizations thrive in times of uncertainty because you have varying perspectives at the table challenging the status quo. Lisa Griffin SVP, Chief Financial Officer WBTV & Studio Ops WE ARE CHANGEMAKERS WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce In 2020, our global workforce felt the effects of external and internal change. The pandemic and multiple rounds of restructuring impacted all of us. As we finished the year, we saw that despite all the change, our gender and ethnicity representation hadnt regressed. To have gone through all of this while maintaining overall representation, and increasing the representation of women in senior leadership, is a modest success. While we recognize that gender is not binary, in 2020 our gender information was captured this way. We are currently reframing how we capture gender, including options to select non-binary, not listed or choose to not disclose. Christy Haubegger EVP, Communications and Chief Inclusion Officer Men 54% Women 46% OUR GLOBAL WORKFORCE GENDER Global promotions and hires Senior leadership Men 48% Women 52% Management Men 51% Women 49% Non-management Men 56% Women 44% Total workforce Men 54% Women 46% Data as of 12.31.2020. In 2018. our global gender representation was men 54%/women 46%, as reported in our 2018 Interim D&I Report, published in September 2019. Global gender by level Senior leadership Men 54% Women 46% Management Men 52% Women 48% Non-management Men 55% Women 45% 16 / 105 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 12% Black 11% Hispanic/Latinx 0.3% Native Hawaiian/ Pacific Islander 0.1% Native American/ Native Alaskan Decline to state 3% Two or more races 12% Asian American 58% White Data as of 12.31.2018 as shared in our 2018 Interim D&I Report, published in September 2019. Figures may not sum due to rounding. Data as of 12.31.2020.  U.S. ethnicity and race by level Senior leadership (VP+) White 72% Asian American 10% Black 7% Hispanic/Latinx 6% Decline to state 3% Two or more races 2% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.3% Native American/Native Alaskan 0.1% Management White 62% Asian American 14% Black 9% Hispanic/Latinx 9% Decline to state 3% Two or more races 3% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.4% Native American/Native Alaskan 0.1% Non-management White 54% Asian American 11% Black 15% Hispanic/Latinx 13% Decline to state 3% Two or more races 3% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.3% Native American/Native Alaskan 0.1%  OUR 2020 U.S. ETHNICITY & RACE REPRESENTATION  2018  61% 11% 13% 11% 1% 2% 0.3% 0.11%  WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 16% Asian American 11% Black 50% White 12% Hispanic/Latinx 7% Decline to state 3% Two or more races 0.4% Native Hawaiian/ Pacific Islander 0.2% Native American/ Native Alaskan Our strategy to create more equity and inclusion across our enterprise starts with our leadership team. This is why youll notice the most progress in our new hires and promotions at the senior leadership level. Notably, the share of hires and promotions within senior leadership going to Black leaders was 12%, five points higher than their share of representation at that level. This is a start. Well keep working across the enterprise to ensure equity at all levels. Non-management White 46% Asian American 16% Black 13% Hispanic/Latinx 13% Decline to state 8% Two or more races 3% Native Hawaiian/ Pacific Islander 0.2% Native American/ Native Alaskan 0.2% Management White 55% Asian American 16% Black 8% Hispanic/Latinx 11% Decline to state 6% Two or more races 4% Native Hawaiian/ Pacific Islander 0.6% Native American/ Native Alaskan 0.3% Data as of 12.31.2020. Figures here may not sum to 100% due to rounding. Senior leadership (VP+) 72% 7% 10% 6% 3% 2% 0.3% 0 .1 % Senior leadership (VP+) hires & promotions 58% 14% 12% 7% 6% 3% 0.5% OUR 2020 U.S. HIRES & PROMOTIONS Comparison of senior leadership vs. hires and promotions 18 / 105 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce THIS HORRIFIC TRAGEDY BROUGHT US TOGETHER TO LISTEN AND UNDERSTAND Jason Kilar CEO, WarnerMedia 19 / 105 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce On June 4, 2020, more than 12,000 employees joined WarnerMedias first town hall on race. This was part of ongoing conversation and meaningful change John Amaechi Dr. Kira Banks Carmen Davenporte-McNeal Measurement We know that what gets measured gets done, so our diversity numbers are included in the leadership teams weekly operational report, along with financial and other essential business metrics. Pay Were making adjustments to ensure that people who are doing the same job, with the same level of experience, skills and performance are not paid differently. Accountability Well be adjusting our internal performance management process to include how we perform on inclusion initiatives. Development Were building our own talent development programs focused on increasing visibility, access and opportunities for underrepresented groups at all levels of the company. Storytelling The stories we tell, and who gets to tell them, matters. Were making changes to ensure that we have creators and stories that reflect the breadth of our global audiences. Training and education The education we all need to unravel a centurys history in our industry is immense, so we are expanding our inclusion learning and development work. An action plan To ensure equity and inclusion are core to our business priorities, we shared the tenets of our strategy. Transparency We want our leadership team to reflect the talent of our community, so were sharing the metrics of our race and ethnicity. This will hold us accountable as we focus on recruiting, hiring, development and retention.  It was affirming to hear the shared experiences of Black employees and see how the reaction of my colleagues, from surprise to sympathy to support, reminds us all of the importance of these conversations. Michael Quigley EVP, Content Acquisitions for TNT, TBS, truTV, HBO and HBO Max I never thought I would witness a company having an honest, raw and in-depth conversation about racism. This town hall ignited ongoing meaningful dialogue that turned into action.  Carmen Davenporte-McNeal Equity & Inclusion Communications & Marketing Director The murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis was felt around the world. When something so material happens, it pauses things. It gave a business like ours the opportunity to listen and understand. The murder of George Floyd also intensified our efforts to enact change.  My immediate commitment was to provide validation to our Black team members. Their voices matter. Their messages matter. One of our early steps was to host WarnerMedias first town hall on race and racism. Here our team members, including CNNs Van Jones and Laura Coates, shared their lived experiences. They shared with courage and vulnerability. Dr. Robin DiAngelo joined to challenge every person at the event to continually and critically work against a racist world view. Finally, Christy Haubegger shared the actions we were taking internally and externally to create systemic change. But we know its just the start. We have to keep challenging ourselves. We have to keep addressing our frameworks if we want to see change. Jason Kilar CEO, WarnerMedia.  Jason Kilar Michael Quigley Immediate action To demonstrate our commitment, we contributed to and supported several organizations.  We pledged $10 million in cash and in-kind services to social justice organizations.  Our partners, such as Color of Change and NAACP LDF, were given access to our platforms to amplify their messages.  We expanded WarnerMedias content innovation program OneFifty with an additional $500K to seed issue-focused creative ideas from communities who often go unheard.  The film Just Mercy was made free for streaming for all U.S. consumers in June 2020.  Ongoing support.  We wanted to help guide our people and continue the conversation beyond the town hall.  We increased our counseling resources for our workforce.  We asked experts like race- trauma specialist Dr. Kira Banks and psychologist John Amaechi to host workshops and training sessions for our teams, creators and creative executives. 20 / 102 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce IF YOU WANT TO WIN ONCE, YOU SET A GOAL, IF YOU WANT TO KEEP WINNING, YOU CREATE A SYSTEM How do we build change?  Christy Haubegger EVP, Communications and Chief Inclusion Officer 21 / 102 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 21 / 105 SVP, International Im looking at how we create more equity across our workforce. So the questions Im asking are how do we... Examine the built landscape to improve equity? Foster a culture of inclusion where difference is celebrated? Build community so everyone has a sense of belonging? Strengthen our capabilities to be equitable and inclusive? Create safe, inclusive sets? Measure our progress and hold ourselves accountable? SVP, Workforce and Production SVP, Content SVP, Pipeline Programs SVP, Corporate Social Responsibility Head of Corporate Communications and Marketing Were home to the worlds best storytellers and content and we want to keep it that way. Im asking how we can... Attract the next generation of fearless storytellers? Showcase stories that reflect the complexity of our fans around the world? Responsibly deliver innovative content experiences to a global audience? My role is to cast the widest net to find new talent. We know that talent is distributed equally — but opportunity isnt. So Im asking how do we... Make our programs more accessible to more people? Share our resources across more countries? Grow new talent to help them tell stories about their lived experiences? We know our business is a force for change. We operate in 57 countries and Im asking questions such as how do we... Show up in our communities to make real social impact? Use our resources and reach to champion social justice? Put our arms around our industrys creative and cultural institutions? Continually ask ourselves if were doing enough? Our work helps people around the world see themselves. So the questions Im asking are how do we... Communicate authentically and transparently? Ensure our storytelling supports our people? Inspire more voices, more perspectives and more ideas? Best illustrate our efforts to the world? Were a global entertainment company that can help people from underrepresented backgrounds thrive. So Im asking how do we... Use our power of storytelling to facilitate change? Build a global equity and inclusion mindset with a tailored local approach? Create a family-friendly culture where everyone is supported? Create synergy between our internal and external equity efforts? Our systems-focused, data-driven approach to equity and inclusion starts with our team that works across the enterprise. WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce. To support our people in 2020, we started by listening to what they needed. Across the world, we hosted opportunities for specific feedback and clumsy conversations. What we heard shaped the tools we created for change. Like the HR Intensive on Race working sessions to help our HR teams have productive discussions about race. Like Path to Equity , where entire business units are offered shared frameworks and language to create understanding. Like Equity Mindset for Creative Leaders , a program where writers, directors and showrunners are given the tools to help them run the safest, most inclusive sets.  Creating space. Shaping support.  WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 23 / 105 Communities There were many challenges in 2020, but the powerful and beneficial outcome of those challenges was an openness and willingness to speak about some of societys biggest issues. But just because theres a willingness to talk about systemic issues like racism doesnt mean that everyone can do it easily, or comfortably or constructively. It can be really daunting to have conversations with Black colleagues about race when you are white. Or conversations about the experiences women have when youre male, or the LGBTQ+ experience if youre straight. Real inclusivity, real diversity means everyone. So we asked the Equity and Inclusion team to create an expert-led program that not only gives people the tools and language to have those conversations, but also a space in which to be clumsy, to ask difficult questions. The HR Intensive on Race is a four- week workshop program, run by four different experts, thats designed to help our human resources teams have conversations about emotional issues. It helps us understand each other better and ultimately build better dialogue. Weve had a lot of feedback from our team members whove completed the program. Overwhelmingly theyve praised the practice the sessions have given them — practice to be more comfortable and constructive in conversation about topics that our society has simply avoided talking about for too long. Jim Cummings Jim Cummings EVP, Chief Human Resources Officer What if you dont know how to have tough conversations? To help more teams have constructive conversations, WarnerMedia launched Path to Equity in 2020. The three-stage program, completed over three weeks, is designed for entire business units. This strategy ensures buy-in from the top and that wider teams have a shared language and understanding that they can apply to their work together. 24 / 105 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce We see a lot of Black celebrities on our screens these days, and thats great. But what youre not seeing is that throughout the industry, behind the cameras, most crews do not have many Black crew members. This has a material impact on the Black actor and the work they can do. Heres a really specific example: hair and make-up. I cannot tell you the number of times Ive been on set and theres no barber for Black men. And stylists, who dont understand their hair, sprinkle water on it and these men then look insane. In 2020, WarnerMedia launched The Equity Mindset for Creative Leaders. Here showrunners, producers and executives convened for a first-of-its-kind, multi-week program focused on building safe, supportive and accessible environments where people can do their best work in the writers room, on set and across all parts of production. Or the number of times someone has approached me with a bottle of Aqua Net and a tiny comb and I have run screaming. An actor who cannot look the part, cannot do their best work. If youre a carpenter, you dont go to work without your tools. This is the same thing. Its not being a diva. We cant do our best work without our tools. This is not a case of hire more Black people on set because we want more Black people on set. Im saying hire more diverse crews so they can better understand the needs of the talent. More showrunners, directors and talent need to insist that their sets have a diverse glam squad because when they do, we will all be able to do our best work. And thats to everyones benefit. Robin Thede What if your glam squad doesnt understand y our hair? Robin Thede Creator, showrunner, executive producer, actor, writer, star A Black Lady Sketch Show 25 / 105 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce My physical ability changes from day to day. Most days I can walk with just my prosthesis, but sometimes I need a cane, and every so often, Im not able to walk at all. But even if I cant walk, I can still work remotely. Before 2020, I had the flexibility to work from home when I needed to, but I missed out on the benefits of being in the office with my coworkers. If there was any silver lining to 2020, it was the rest of the world seeing how productive remote work can be. Diverse ABILITIES is a business resource group (BRG) that advocates for people with disabilities. And a big part of that is advocating for remote work so that were able to hire people with disabilities for whom WarnerMedia is otherwise inaccessible. Accessibility impacts our customers as well. We try to educate employees on what tools people with disabilities use to access our content. This led our CNN BRG members to make CNNs website even easier for people with vision loss to read using a screen reader. Its been game-changing just having a group to go to with my specific accessibility gripes. Even if the solve isnt immediately available, its empowering to have the empathy (and leverage) of a group backing me up. Ive also learned so much from Diverse ABILITIES about other disabilities. The disability community is incredibly diverse. We all have different needs, but by coming together, we can get more done than we ever could alone. Diana Theobald What if your disability changes day to day? Diana Theobald Senior Manager, Creative D&I, Cartoon Network Studios & Warner Bros. Animation Burbank, CA 26 / 105 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Today, Native Americans are more likely to be killed by the police or die from untreated diseases than any other ethnicity. What were experiencing is a systematic wipeout of a population that were once the stewards of this land. Im a part of ARC (Asian Americans, Pacific Islanders Representing Change) and BE (Black Empowerment) . Im currently working on the intersection between Blacks and Native Americans; part of this was an open discussion on their influence on Black Wall Street for Juneteenth. Im happy that people are willing to plug into these discussions and learn about the history that is not available in American history books. Most importantly, I feel that my voice and the voice of my ancestors are being heard and recognized. I think its important to educate people of the value of these communities and the issues they face. Without education and awareness, funding and action is dismissed, and problems will escalate. Les Frye Senior Administrative Assistant Xandr, New York, NY I go by they/them pronouns and the name Andy, a gender-neutral diminutive of my birth name. Despite putting in effort to present more feminine at work, and prominently displaying my pronouns and name, I still get a lot of he and Andrew. 12 Business Resource Groups 48+ chapters 7,000+ members Our business resource groups are championing inclusion I understand to an extent: when I joined the company, I presented as male because I wasnt ready to be out. Still, it can be exhausting, especially during meetings where I dont always feel OK interrupting to correct the person that misgendered me or used the wrong name. WarnerMedia is the first place Ive felt comfortable being open about my gender and sexuality. Shortly after joining, I noticed how many people had included their pronouns in their Slack handles. Such a small gesture made me feel like I was surrounded by supportive people. Im part of PRISM , and for Transgender Day of Visibility, we shared stories of peoples experiences as transgender or gender nonconforming. It made me feel seen and valid. Giving people a chance to celebrate who they are is a huge confidence boost. As a result of being more visible as a transgender person in the workplace, I feel like Ive gained allies. Ive seen people become more receptive to correction when they make mistakes. Ive found people who will have my back, and even speak up for me. Most importantly, its made me more confident in who I am. Andy Larkin Senior Manager, Accessibility Chicago, IL / New York, NY Most of us are forced to identify with being either White, Black, Hispanic or Asian. The Native or Indigenous voice is often overlooked, especially in a workplace. WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce.  The WM Inclusive, our equity and inclusion content hub, is a celebration of everything we stand for. Heres why were opening it up to the world.  WarnerMedia is the home for exceptional creatives across the spectrum of gender, race, sexuality and more. Were also home to a global workforce thats passionate about reflecting genuine stories in their home countries. The Equity and Inclusion Communications Team created The WM Inclusive to celebrate the authenticity of our content and the excellence of our workforce through the lens of equity and inclusion. But, most importantly, its where colleagues share their stories and see themselves. The platforms in- house success inspired us to push its potential beyond our firewalls. Well share The WM Inclusive with our partners, collaborators and audiences so that they can see how were trying every day to reflect the audiences and communities we have the privilege to serve. James Anderson Head of Corporate Communications and Marketing INDUSTRY PERSPECTIVES The WM Inclusive BEHIND- THE- SCENES ACCESS WHEN YOU SEE US, YOU SEE YOU INSIGHTS & EXPERTISE WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEWS RECRUITMENT Were focusing on authentic connections with our graduate recruitment. Were leaning into our storytelling DNA and our internal HBCU (Historically Black Colleges and Universities) community to support our outreach to HBCU future graduates. Who better to showcase all that WarnerMedia can offer?  PROGRAMS Were using the power of our content to open the industry. The Game of Thrones prequel, House of the Dragon, is not only an opportunity to serve our audiences, its also an opportunity to offer more training globally. Through House of the Dragon, were offering two director mentorships, apprenticeships, 10 camera assistant traineeships and three virtual production stage assistant paid placements in the U.K. Weve also partnered with ScreenSkills in the U.K. to support 20 apprenticeships for production assistants and assistant production accountants. PRODUCTION From set dressers to camera, our 100,000+ production cast and crew are our frontline changemakers. Every decision made on set impacts how we view the world and each other. Our aspiration is simple: to have the safest, most inclusive sets in the world. Were setting the standard and supporting our productions to ensure talent is the primary predictor of success, everyone on set is treated with dignity, and our sets and stories are as diverse as the people who watch them — establishing equity and inclusion as business imperatives, from pitch to post-production.  THERES SO MUCH MORE TO COME Read more about WarnerMedia Fellows Meet our HBCU alumni Explore our Access programs CAREERS This year, we launched WarnerMedia Fellows with an inaugural U.S. cohort of 75 SVPs who identify as Black, Asian American, Latinx or multiracial. This six-month program was designed to generate both individual growth and collective transformation by providing executives of color access to resources and information that support their career advancement, increase their visibility to each other and other leaders, resulting in more opportunities to shape the future. Speakers in the program included thought leaders such as former Obama senior advisor Valerie Jarrett and Harvard Business Schools Prof. Frances Frei. For us, equity + inclusion = diversity. Were working to create the systems that provide fairness and environments that are welcoming, to enable more diversity. Here are four ways were doing this.  WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce EVERYONE HAS A STORY WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce EVERYONE HAS A STORY EVERYONE HAS A STORY EVERYONE HAS A STORY Our content has been educating, enlightening and entertaining audiences all over the world for almost a century. So much has changed and it has never been more important to understand the complexity of our fans so that we can better engage them with our storytelling. Samata Narra SVP, Content Content WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Challenging a century of limited access to Hollywood and the entertainment industry isnt something you address once. It requires ongoing, diligent action.  In 2018, we formalized our initial action with the industrys first Production Diversity Policy. With it, we pledged our best efforts to ensure greater inclusion in front of and behind the camera. Since then, weve been building on this work, moving toward better equity and inclusion through all stages of our content creation, from pitch to post-production. This has been a consultative, thoughtful process. 2020 gave us the opportunity to really listen to our showrunners, creators, crews and, of course, our executives to understand the challenges they face in championing more inclusive storytelling and productions. Based on the feedback and needs of over 3,000 people, we developed a system of tools and resources to support and guide inclusive decision-making. We looked at how we choose storytellers, how we run safe, inclusive sets and how we support brave new storytelling. The success of our business depends on this. If we want to super-serve more audiences with the worlds most compelling storytelling, if we want to attract the best talent, if we want to demonstrate how much we respect our creators, audiences and our employees — then real inclusion is essential. Ann Sarnoff Chair and CEO WarnerMedia Studios and Networks Group WE BELIEVE THAT EVERYONE SHOULD SEE THEMSELVES IN THE STORIES WE TELL WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 32 / 105 Across our brands, the diversity of our 2020 storytellers on-screen and behind the camera shows overall improvement. Heres how we compare to 2019. women, up 2% on 2019 36% people of color, up 5% on 2019 29% people of color, up 5% on 2019 29% women, down 4% on 2019 30% WarnerMedia scripted shows On-screen representation Warner Bros. films On-screen representation Behind-the-camera representation 28% women, up 5% on 2019 29% people of color, up 6% on 2019 Behind-the-camera representation 27% women, up 4% on 2019 27% people of color, up 4% on 2019 The data reflects voluntary self-identified production payroll information for titles that appeared on-air/on-screen.  WERE SHOWING PROGRESS Legendary Judas and the Black Messiah Flight Attendant in the Heights WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Charm City Kings Betty Insecure I Hate Suzie HBO UCLA Hollywood Diversity Report 2020 The Last OG Caws Our scripted series Across our industry, despite recent gains made, women remain underrepresented.  On average, 30% of scripted series are directed by women and 40% of scripted series are written by women.  For people of color, the figures drop significantly.  Only 22% of the industrys scripted series are directed by people of color and 24% of scripted series are written by people of color.  At WarnerMedia, were working to change this.  Our HBO Max figures, in particular, demonstrate how were supporting a more diverse range of storytellers.  40% written by people of color 48% written by women directed by women 39% directed by people of color 31% HBO Max directed by people of color 42% 44% written by people of color 51% written by women directed by women 42% TBS, TNT & truTV directed by people of color 28% 46% written by people of color 37% written by women directed by women 35% WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Steven Universe—Connie Maheswaran Scooby-Doo—Velma Dinkley of lead characters of color in development are female of protagonists in development are female of lead characters in development are female Cartoon Network Cartoon Network Warner Bros. Animation 58% 54% 52% Our animation shows representation Across the kids TV landscape, 45% of lead characters are female, but we want to see full gender parity and intersectionality. There are also less obvious gender disparities in kids programming; for example, non-human characters default to male — only about 30% are female. Were actively combating all of this across Cartoon Network Studios and Warner Bros. Animation. Our representation of LGBTQ+ characters leads the industry. Among platforms, Cartoon Network offers the most LGBTQ+ characters across its series and the most individual series featuring LGBTQ+ characters. A total of 96 LGBTQ+ characters and 19 LGBTQ+-inclusive shows have aired on Cartoon Network.  Adventure Time—Marceline See Jane 2020 TV Report 2. Center for Scholars and Storytellers, 2019 3. Insider.com WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce In 2020, we were there when it mattered WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Confronting Racism: Britains Big Race Divide (CNN) In the wake of the George Floyd police killing, CNN International launched a cross-platform series investigating the underreported story of race and racism in Britain.Women Represented: The 100 Year Battle for Equality (CNN) Why have Americans not elected a woman president, why are women still paid less, and whats the legacy of #MeToo? A special report about gender equality in America.  Why is no one looking for the missing Native American teenagers? (CNN) Examining the criminal negligence of law-enforcement officers, as hundreds of Native American teenage girls go missing or are killed in Montana each year.  Take It There: Bleacher Report (Turner Sports) No-holds-barred discussions on race with top NBA athletes, hosted by Bleacher Reports Taylor Rooks. It included DeMar DeRozan, JJ Redick and Malcolm Jenkins.  Coming Together: Standing Up to Racism (CNN) Big Bird and friends joined CNN commentator Van Jones and CNN anchor Erica Hill to talk to kids about racism, protests, embracing diversity and being more empathetic and understanding.  Anti-Racism PSAs (Cartoon Network) The Steven Universe team collaborated with clinical psychologist Dr. Kira Banks to create a series of anti-racism public service announcements (PSAs). The result went viral on TikTok.  We asked difficult questions We helped children understand.  Watch the video Read more Listen to the podcast.  WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce.  We shared lived experiences We amplified voices challenging the system.  Just Mercy (Warner Bros.) A death-row drama about the true-life story of U.S. lawyer Bryan Stevensons battle to free an Alabama man wrongfully convicted of murder.  Um Dia Qualquer (WM International, Brazil) Behind the Carnival masks lies the tough reality of families living in a neighborhood under the control of the all-powerful militia in Brazil.  Silence Is Not An Option (CNN) Don Lemon looks for meaningful solutions in this podcast as he speaks to activists, artists and thinkers about Americas racial divide.  As Equals (CNN) From faulty birth control pills distributed in Chile to teenagers duped into prostitution in India to the epidemic of sexual violence in Nigeria — this series aims to reveal how systemic gender inequity impacts our world.  Indigenous people want their land back (CNN) The movement to reclaim indigenous lands across North America is gaining momentum, as the nation grapples with injustices committed against marginalized communities.  Proyecto Ser Humano (CNN en Español) The Human Being Project is a multiplatform campaign against discrimination — it concludes: hate is taught.  The Arena (TNT) A space for thoughtful conversation within the sports industry — with no topic off-limits: vaccine testing, voting power, mental health, economic empowerment and more.  Invisible Stories (HBO Asia) An anthology series that digs into the underbelly of Singapores familiar public housing neighborhoods, telling stories of marginalized and alienated characters.  Maricón Perdido (TNT Spain) Created and written by Bob Pop, one of the most visible faces of the LGBTQI+ rights movement in Spain, this original series celebrates embracing your authentic self.  WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce HBO Max, our recently launched streaming platform, is bringing more of our content to more people, now in the U.S., Caribbean and Latin America, but soon the world. HBO Max is full of the films and TV series youd expect, but its also home to new and original stories that our teams love.  MORE DRAMA MORE LAUGHS MORE MAX WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce HBO Max insiders recommend...Storytelling isnt a craft done in isolation. No matter what the story, you are meeting your audience as they are in that moment and Lovecraft Country does this phenomenally well. It presents elements of Black history and experience that many audiences have never been exposed to, let alone presented a visceral snapshot of in their own home. The depictions of history paired with the well-developed and emotionally intelligent characters alone would be a success; but by genre-bending the narrative into science fiction, Lovecraft Country breaks into a category of entertainment of its own and is a joy to watch. Oliver McGuire Social Production Coordinator HBO Max, Atlanta, GA Its a millennial gender-swapped version of Notting Hill written by and starring comedian Rose Matafeo. Its fresh and heartfelt and funny. The friendships are just as wonderful as the romantic relationships. Jessie is basically platonic soulmates with her roommate, who makes me chortle. And she has an adorable burgeoning romantic relationship with a movie star! Its like cotton candy — sweet and light and fluffy, and fully devoured before you know it! Also, youll never love Return of the Mack more than you will watching it score her post-one-night-stand dance. If you love Starstruck, then check out Roses stand-up show Horn Dog. Aari Reich Manager of Casting HBO Max, Los Angeles, CA This really hit me in a way that no other show has. Veneno takes you on Cristinas journey as a transgender woman. I didnt fully understand the trans community until someone close to me transitioned. As a gay man, I immediately identified with how you find a whole new family that understands you and is like you. For the trans community, I can only imagine the impact of seeing Cristina live her life in a time where it was even less understood, and played by wonderful trans talent no less. The trans community is underrepresented and often misunderstood in this country — but I knew that if people gave Veneno a chance theyd be inspired like I was. I believed in it so much that Ive recommended the hell out of it both in a personal and professional capacity, and probably annoyed a lot of people in the process (until they finally watched it themselves and agreed!) Robbie Tseng Vice President, Growth Mktg Design, HBO Max New York, NY Lovecraft Country presents elements of Black history that many audiences have never been exposed to I CRIED MULTI- LAYERED TEARS WATCHING VENENO Starstruck is one of my favorite originals on HBO Max WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce.  The six Academy Award nominations for Judas and the Black Messiah included one for Best Picture. This is the first time an all-Black producing teams title has made the list. Heres how it came to the screen.  SHARING HISTORY, MAKING HISTORY Judas and the Black Messiah WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce The producers of Judas and the Black Messiah, Charles D. King, Shaka King and Ryan Coogler, fought for this film. They knew the power of the story of Chairman Fred Hampton and the Black Panther Party. Hampton was a man trying to bring communities together, to help them heal. Yet he was assassinated by the police in the 1960s. If you consider the racial reckoning that started in 2020 with the murder of George Floyd and so many others by the police, youll know that the challenges of the 1960s are still relevant today. There was a lot of passion within the Warner Bros. team for this film. Niija Kuykendall, an EVP for Film Production, had been wanting to tell this story for a long time. We knew this was going to be a powerful story as early as the table read in Burbank. There was electricity in the air when Daniel Kaluuya (who played Hampton) brought all his intensity as he stood up and shouted I am! A Revolutionary! The critical acclaim that this film has received is not only testament to its creators, its also testament that great stories and great films resonate across audiences. To be truly successful, we need to produce films that celebrate the perspectives and life experiences of the entire audience, not just parts of it. Were proud of what weve accomplished to date, but know we have a long way to go and were committed to doing the work. Toby Emmerich Chairman, Warner Bros. Pictures Watch the trailer Watch an exclusive clip Niija Kuykendall Ive always wanted to do a film on the Black Panther Party, but other projects didnt feel right. This time, when I read the script and met the team, it felt electric Niija Kuykendall EVP, Film Production Warner Bros. Pictures Producer Charles D. King and director Shaka King on set Toby Emmerich WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce BRING IT ON Three of 2020s biggest action and thriller titles were all-out entertainment. They were also led by women. Heres what they added to our world...WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Birds of Prey How do you demonstrate Harley Quinns story of emancipation from The Joker? For the team behind Birds of Prey, it was to let Harley do everything. Harley — and the Birds of Prey from across the DC universe — get to be flawed, funny, powerful, annoying, insightful, vulnerable and bad-ass. Its a superhero film with fully realized characters and a distinct womans view. Take the fight scene where Black Canarys hair keeps getting in her eyes, and Harley skates over to give her a hair tie, before both turning back to the action. Women werent just represented on screen. The screenplay was written by Christina Hodson, costumes were designed by Erin Benach, and Margot Robbie, who played Harley, was also the producer. The result: a laugh- out-loud, in-your-face, crazy, colorful ride.  The Flight Attendant It shouldnt be weird to have a show about a woman in her 30s whos not pursuing the marriage- and-kids path, but it is.  So I love that we created a show about a woman whose problems have nothing to do with her marital status at her age. Cassie (played by Kaley Cuoco) has a problem and needs to go on a quest to solve it, but her resolving it isnt about her becoming more conventional. Weve taken a thriller and, thanks to the script, gone deep into the psychology of this character — her addictions, her mind palace. It meant I could work with Kaley to get a performance thats completely unlike what shes known for. Im passionate about doing this because it really breaks us all out of the pigeonholes that the industry is known to put us in. (Interview: GoldDerby) Susanna Fogel Director, producer ANTI-HEROES THAT DO AND FEEL EVERYTHING A THRILLER THAT DEFIES CONVENTION Kaley Cuoco Watch the trailer Watch the trailer Cassies 7 worst decisions WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce ACTION THATS REAL Wonder Woman 1984 In 2017, Patty Jenkins transformed the perception of a woman superhero with the blockbuster Wonder Woman. For Wonder Woman 1984, the director and producer demonstrated her ambition with a visual spectacle that combined big-screen action with an emotional connection. One of the ways she achieved this impact was by filming the entirety of the action sequences with minimal CGI (computer-generated imagery.) Seeing the actors run, fight and push themselves means the audiences feel the authenticity and are more invested in the story. Wonder Woman 1984 was released simultaneously in theaters and on HBO Max. It exceeded the streaming platforms key viewing metrics in the first 24 hours. Proof that real action creates a real connection.  Watch the trailer Patty Jenkins and Gal Gadot.  WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce TELLING MY STORY MY WAY I May Destroy You.  Theres a lot of dark humor in I May Destroy You, despite this being a show about sexual assault, trauma and identity. Part of the show was based on my own experience of assault and when I started writing about it, the humor was there, like the person you didnt invite to the party. Theyre just standing at the back with a cocktail in their hand.  This humor helps me.  I use laughter to disassociate from something harrowing, or to get closer to it.  I used it to look at how trauma can influence how you see things, and the power your trauma can have over you, even if youre not aware of it. I wrote I May Destroy You from my gut, so being able to tell the story authentically was incredibly important to me. The BBC and HBO as co-producers were a happy home for this project.  When I took the show to the BBC, we met for an hour and a day later I got the go-ahead. No treatment. No pilot. They wanted me to remain true to my voice. I am so appreciative that I was given full creative control, but I had the guidance when I needed it. The whole experience of this show — from thinking to writing to shooting to editing to rewriting — has been the most satisfying experience of my life. Michaela Coel Creator, writer, actor, executive producer, co-director.  Watch the trailer Explore our community-led resources for Black and Queer communities WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce In the Heights DREAMS ARE BIGGER WHEN THEYRE CINEMATIC WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Its a feel-good celebration of family, community and the power of dreams. In the Heights, the award-winning Broadway hit, is finally on our big and small screens, bringing with it new break-out talent, a different dance style for every dance scene (because everyones dreams come from a different place, says the director Jon M. Chu) and a whole lot of joy.  Watch the trailer Explore the stories Its time for a movie to remind us about the beautiful things that happen when you care for the person next to you Leslie Grace, actor ITS IMPORTANT FOR EVERY C OMMUNITY TO FEEL SEEN Stephanie Beatriz, actor.  Its a love story about this amazing neighborhood.  Anthony Ramos, actor Everyone feels like something in this story is theirs, everyone sees something of their family in it Lin-Manuel Miranda, creator ITS GOING TO INSPIRE EVERYONE ON THE PLANET TO DREAM BIGGER Jon M. Chu, director ITS ABOUT FINDING HOME, AND THATS A DIFFERENT THING FOR EACH CHARACTER Corey Hawkins, actor Jon M. Chu and Lin-Manuel Miranda WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Between the World and Me I read Ta-Nehisi Coates Between the World and Me, in one night back in 2015. I was so impacted by it, by how Black history was represented. I bawled. I laughed. I felt the need to commune with family.  I called Ta-Nehisi immediately and said, Come on man, we need to put this on stage. It took some persuading, but we finally launched it as a production at the Apollo Theater in New York. But then 2020 happened and we needed to stop the show and quarantine, and this made the need to commune even greater — but how? We couldnt stage a play. The answer? We needed cameras. And I needed a concept for this story that was true to this time, Mahershala Ali Kamilah Forbes of Covid, of the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and others, and embrace this all as part of the storytelling.  So we shot actors singularly, often in their homes. We made sure we represented a full diversity — actors, activists and leaders — so you get a full spectrum of the community within the book. That this was a woman-led production — myself, Susan Kelechi Watson as executive producer, Alisa Payne as producer, among others — has definitely informed our interpretation of the book and how it resonated with us in 2020. This is critically important because as Black storytellers we are leaving artifacts of what we did here on Earth. So when people look back on 2020 and ask who was there, what was happening, its important that we are controlling our narrative. Kamilah Forbes Director, executive producer AND HOW WE TELL OUR STORY TO SCREEN TO STAGE BOOK Oprah Winfrey Mahershala Ali Pauletta Washington Courtney B. Vance Angela Bassett Yara Shahidi Go behind the scenes with the director Listen in on the films official podcast Ta-Nehisi Coates WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Storytelling allows us to understand each other. It builds empathy and broadens our worlds. Here are four perspectives we shared in 2020.  SHARING STORIES FROM DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce The Mopes Can you visualize mental illness? Can you create a way to help audiences understand and empathize with the experience of depression? That was Ipek Züberts challenge as she spent four years creating The Mopes. A process that involved understanding how prevalent depression was in Germany, and consulting with psychologists, therapists, physicians, associations as well as those affected by the illness. The result? A comedy- drama series with a moderate depression you can actually see.  The Oracle Code Who is the best Batgirl and why? For author Marieke Nijkamp, its always Barbara Gordon as Oracle. After The Joker has left her permanently in a wheelchair, Barbara has to find herself — and her agency — again. Nijkamp describes herself as a disabled author and its why the opportunity to tell this story was compelling. Its so rare to see disabled superheroes who are unapologetically disabled, she says. Who dont get any superpowers to negate their disabilities, but who find their strength in being who they are. I think thats an amazing message for both disabled readers and non-disabled readers alike. How do I make the disease depression tangible for people who have never dealt with it?  Ipek Zübert, writer ITS RARE TO SEE SUPERHEROES WHO ARE UNAPOLOGETICALLY DISABLED Marieke Nijkamp, author Read more about the authors inspiration See why this graphic novel is all about squad goals WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Autism: The Sequel Back in 2007, the Emmy-winning documentary Autism: The Musical introduced us to five children on the autism spectrum who were writing and performing a musical. But what happened to those children? How are they navigating what independence means to them as young adults? And what changes do we need in our workplaces and society to help everyone contribute to the richness of our culture? In Autism: The Sequel, as we meet up again with Henry, Neal, Lexi, Wyatt and Adam, were reminded that theres no one experience on the spectrum.  Everyone has their own talents and challenges and the desire to make it on their own.  Transhood Filmed over five years in Kansas City, Transhood chronicles the lives of four young people (aged four, seven, 12, and 15 at the start of filming) and their families as they navigate growing up transgender in Americas heartland.  By sharing personal realities of how gender expression is reshaping their lives, the film explores how these families struggle and stumble through parenting, and how the kids are challenged and transformed as they experience the complexity of their identities.  I love that people have the strength to say this is me Jay, from Transhood I dont want to let something a doctor has put on a piece of paper stop me Henry, from Autism: The Sequel Henry Wyatt, with his mother Diane Jay Avery We need perseverance right now, says executive producer Watch the trailer Looking for support? Use our discussion guide and resources Hear more from Jay and Leena WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce THE BIG S CREEN I S BACK Godzilla vs. Kong Its the movie that announced the big screen is back. Godzilla vs. Kong racked up nearly $475 million at the box office, while being simultaneously debuted on HBO Max. It was also the movie that introduced the world to Kaylee Hottle, a young deaf actress who played Jia.  Jia, an orphan, develops a special bond with Kong and communicates with him through sign language. Kaylee worked with her parents, who are also deaf, and a consultant to translate the entire script into American Sign Language (ASL). This process can be complex as ASLs sentence structure is very different from the spoken word, but the crew quickly adapted and some of the actors even learned how to sign so they could communicate with Kaylee. Kaylee Hottle Watch the trailer WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce OPPORTUNITIES ON INFINITE EARTHS The new DC leadership team from left: Walter Hamada, President DC-Based Films; Pam Lifford, President WarnerMedia Global Brands and Experiences; Jim Lee, Publisher and Chief Creative Officer; and Daniel Cherry III, SVP and General Manager DC Publishing WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce The future for DC Entertainment is an interconnected universe. Where more stories, more versions, more entertainment will reach more audiences. At the heart of the business strategy is equity and inclusion, says the leadership team. What does the future of DC look like for you?  Daniel: Our ambition is to develop a truly fan-first, multimedia publisher that entertains all DC fans, wherever they may live in the world and however they may choose to enjoy our iconic characters and compelling comics content. We foresee a more robust and diverse DC Universe of characters, created by fresh and diverse talent.  Jim: Im super excited for the future of DC. On the publishing side, we are in a period of growth and innovation as we seize global opportunities to bring our content to the widest audiences possible. Looking at what Walter Hamada has lined up with the debut of five DC feature films in 2022, and what WBTV and HBO Max have assembled between their robust slates of DC TV shows and animation productions, and you throw in DC video games from WB Games — well, its literally the greatest line-up of content in the 85+ years of DC history. Walter: My focus is on delivering a wide spectrum of movies that will appeal to audiences around the characters of color and storylines that resonate with international tastes, but in engaging with local content creators to deliver all this content in the most authentic and inclusive ways possible. This means cultivating, training and empowering a talent community both domestically and globally in all mediums. Walter: All audiences want to see good movies that feel original. You cant deliver the same movie over and over. We seek out filmmakers who bring a different perspective to the universe and this allows us to tell authentic stories that will resonate with people around the world. Jim: There is tremendous upside in expanding our footprint in international markets — specifically Brazil, China, Japan, Korea and India. But its also spending the time and energy to ensure this is all an organic expansion of the core DC mythos that our current fans grew up on and love. Its both a weighty responsibility and a joy to be able to add something new to the world of DC.  Daniel: And our people play a key role in this too. If we want to entertain and engage the world, our staff must reflect this exciting and changing world as well. Equity and inclusion is at the heart of our DC Comics content development, hiring and training processes.  How can comics stay true to our times?  Walter: Superhero movies are obviously heightened realities, but we still believe they should reflect the world we live in. There are plenty of white male superheroes. We want to see more women and people of color inhabit our universe. Unless the core of the character is defined by their race or gender, I believe we are free to.  Our only hope is a bunch of supervillains. The Suicide Squad released in 2021 The Batman, starring Robert Pattinson and Zoë Kravitz, due in 2022 world. We want to use our diverse collection of characters to tell stories in every genre. We will be building out our interconnected universe but will always embrace great stories even if they end up being stand-alone titles like Joker.  How will you connect with that global fanbase?  Jim: To grow a global audience, its not just about exporting our amazing characters and storylines but in finding ways of making that content truly reflective of the audiences we want to reach. That means not just creating more Daniel Cherry III Jim Lee Walter Hamada WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Find out how were showcasing underrepresented voices Explore DCs Pride Anthology Dive into latest DC trailers, comics, games here See what happened at DC FanDome 2020 Superman was the first superhero blockbuster in 1978 cast the best actor for the role. We are also working with more women and people of color behind the camera. Writers like Christina Hodson and Ta-Nehisi Coates and directors like James Wan, Patty Jenkins and Andy Muschietti bring their world view and personal experiences into our universe, and we are better for it. Jim: The best storytelling reflects and expands upon the truths of our times and our personal experiences. Its not a surprise that Superman was created out of the depths of despair following the Great Depression or that Batmans origins were inspired by the increasing urbanization and growth of violence in inner cities of the late 1930s. Given that todays audiences are so sophisticated and have so much content they can choose from — I think its imperative we continue to push our content to feel truly inclusive both in front of and behind the camera. What recent work demonstrates DCs future focus? Daniel: There are two for me. We launched Nubia: Real One by L.L. McKinney and Robyn Smith that chronicles a coming-of-age story of Nubia set in modern times. It deals with themes that many young Black and multicultural kids can relate to, especially Black women who are so often overlooked or caricatured in media despite being the real-life (super)heroes of our culture so many times over. We are also launching a mentorship initiative to identify, mentor and develop the next generation of diverse talent in the comics space. Its our hope that these fresh voices from around the world find a home with DC Comics to further enrich our already amazingly diverse and vibrant DC Universe. Jim: On the publishing side, we are showcasing the amazing pantheon of Milestone characters and working with Milestone principals Reggie Hudlin and Denys Cowan to ultimately realize a multimedia expression of the Milestone universe, starting with a new line of comics and also a live action Static movie, executive produced by Michael B. Jordan.  What superhero has most resonance for you?  Jim: Im partial to the Legion of Super-Heroes because they are so oddball and fun. Matter-Eater Lad is one of my favorites, but I identify with Ultra Boy, especially as I get older. Ultra Boy has essentially the same power set as Superman but can only use one power at a time. I used to think I was a pretty good multi-tasker, but I know I am definitely in the Ultra Boy period of my life now. Theres a focus and precision that comes with addressing one thing at a time, especially when we are taking on so many initiatives and ambitions, all at once. Daniel: Barry Allen aka The Flash. His famous quote paraphrased: Life doesnt give us purpose. We give life purpose.  Meet teenage Nubia, Wonder Womans sister Welcome back Milestones classic heroes WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Batwoman is a very physical role, so when designing a new costume for Javicia Leslies Batwoman, it was important that she had unimpeded mobility in the suit. I wanted her to be able to showcase her strength and get her Bat swagger on. Ryan Wilder, Javicias character, is also the first Black Batwoman in any live-action production, so it was vital we created the right suit for her. Her afro was one of the first points we discussed. Her hair is her crown, its a true celebration and representation of Black culture. Janice Workman who worked on the hair executed it brilliantly. The creation of the new suit was also part of the story. Ryan makes her Batsuit from the Season 1 suit (Batwoman can sew!). Given this, I decided to repurpose some of the details from that first suit. The lines of her new suit and the Bat glyph are more in keeping with Javicias body type, and the boots are a homage to the Batmobile from the Adam West series. Im also incredibly happy that the suit is 95% non-leather. Im working hard on that five percent. Batwoman I DESIGNED A BATSUIT FOR COMPLETE MOBILITY AND BAT SWAGGER The reality of becoming a superhero is suddenly very real once an actor puts on their supersuit. Javicia was pretty excited. Her posture changed, she stood proud and tall with a huge smile on her face. And it was a suit that really worked for her. It was fantastic to see her perform some of the more challenging fight sequences and harness work without her suit getting in the way. I love the representation of this character, but even more, I love that kids of all genders and cultures everywhere will see a strong Black female superhero on television. Standing tall and kicking ass! Maya Mani Costume designer Maya Mani Heres what Javicia says about the suit WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Hajra doesnt let anyone control her life. Shes only 18 but knows how she and her German-Lebanese parents are seen within society, where aggression and racism are part of life. Rasaq battles her beliefs. She has a good relationship with her religious and sophisticated parents, but she spends her time on the dangerous streets with her friends. Jazz dreams of being a dancer, but are her bravery and ambition enough? Wedding isnt a neighborhood you can easily break out of... Fanta embodies fearlessness on the outside. But her single mothers financial struggles and her lack of sleep weigh on her every day.  Should your past determine your future?  Para – We Are King What are the possibilities for young women whove grown up in the rough streets of Wedding in Berlin, needing to fight for anything they get? Thats what weve explored in Para – We Are King. Para is a term for fast money. It comes from Turkish, but its used by Germans as well. Here it signifies that these girls dont just want a better prospect for their future, but their share of the cake, too. Para – We Are King is the story of friendship between Hajra, Fanta, Rasaq and Jazz, four women with big dreams. But its also the story of what it means to be young in an exciting Berlin today. Anke Greifeneder Executive producer WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce The new Gossip Girl is far more than a reboot.  Of course it has the New York style. The drama. And all the gossip. But now the focus on inclusivity and representation can be seen on screen and behind the scenes, says Joey Chavez, EVP, Original Drama Programming at HBO Max. Here are three things Joey says you didnt know. XOXO We had so much fun. A director Karena Evans, who was the genius behind music videos for Drake, brought so much energy to the set. We promoted up-and-coming artists on the soundtrack. We opened up on social: Gossip Girl tweeted between episodes and each character had their own Instagram account. Gossip Girl gives fans HBO quality with a whole lot of high-school scandal. We didnt cast to conform with whats on the script page. Our showrunner Josh Safran was looking for actors who would add their authenticity to the character. Like Evan Mock. He wasnt an actor, he hadnt even thought about acting. He was a skater and an Instagram influencer. But Josh loved what Evan added to the character Aki, and I loved that the actors could bring their look and energy to the show. We werent interested in monolithic culture or box-ticking. We wanted complexity and nuance within communities. That we have three Black women in lead roles is great. But what excited my team is that these three women allowed us to explore such character diversity, from Monet who is the fun villain with such great quips, to Julien who is driven by her desire for power and Zoya who believes in doing good.  YOU KNOW YOU LOVE ME Watch the trailer Be part of the conversation on Twitter Follow Gossip Girl on Instagram Follow Julien on Instagram Joey Chavez WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce HISTORY COMPLEXITY ACTION Hollywoods martial-arts storytelling was historically one dimensional, with no room for representation. Heres how this is changing. WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Kung Fu The writer, Christina M. Kim, completely reimagined the 1972 Kung Fu storyline for the new series, this time putting family at the heart of the show. And for myself as a woman, she said, I really wanted a strong female Asian lead who was kicking butt and was the role model that I wished I had growing up on TV. The result is the first network drama that features a predominantly Asian cast, with fully realized characters. Warrior Based on the original writings of Bruce Lee, Warrior tells the story of martial-arts prodigy Ah Sahm during the Tong Wars in 1870s San Francisco, before the introduction of the Chinese Exclusion Act. But this isnt just a historical drama or an action show, its looking at the central role immigrants play in Americas history and how the racism they faced remains systemic. Executive produced by Shannon Lee, Bruces daughter, Jonathan Tropper and Justin Lin, the show received an outpouring from fans after the second season, which contributed to Season 3 being greenlit. TO PLAY A CHARACTER WHO HAS FOUND HER VOICE AND WHO IS TRYING TO USE HER VOICE, HAS EMPOWERED ME TO DO THE SAME IN MY OWN LIFE Olivia Liang, actor Kung Fu is all about social justice and episode after episode, you see every single character trying to rise above their own inhibitions or fears to do what is right Kheng Hua Tan, actor The challenge that so many Asian or Asian American characters faced for years in Hollywood was that one Asian character had to represent the full complexity and history of every Asian, Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI). This resulted in one-dimensional stereotypes. With Kung Fu the team was determined to do things differently, to allow for more nuance, different histories and character development over the series. Yes, were building on the legacy of martial arts storytelling, but were doing it with three-dimensional characters and richer complexity. Channing Dungey Chairman, Warner Bros. Television Group Olivia Liang Thank you to the fans! Th e cast on overcoming stereotypes See the cast come together for #StopAsianHate Kung Fu Kung Fu Christina M. Kim Warrior WARRIOR TELLS A STORY NO ONE ELSE IS TELLING IN A WAY NO ONE ELSE IS DOING Casey Bloys, Chief Content Officer, HBO and HBO Max Casey Bloys Channing Dungey WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 61 / 105 In Korea, Patel and a friend confronted their issues with work/life balance Korea Traveling with his wife to Japan, the couple explored parenting and gender roles Japan Pursuit of Happiness You can thank Ravi Patels therapist for the HBO Max comedy docuseries Pursuit of Happiness. Patel was in his 40s, a workaholic and unhappy. His conversations with his therapist, about how he could be a better father, husband and son, were the genesis of a show where he journeyed around the world looking for answers. Patel traveled to Mexico with his parents to understand retirement and aging Mexico In Denmark, Patel and a Muslim friend encountered an immigration crisis not unlike the one in America Denmark Im obsessed with trying new things and getting better. I love fun and I love LOVE, hence the premise of this show. Each episode truly was a life-changing journey; I learned so much about myself, laughed with some of the most inspiring people in my life, and gained 15 pounds. With the world in such a crazy place right now, maybe this show is what some of us need. Ravi Patel Executive producer, writer, actor Watch the trailer EACH EPISODE WAS LIFE-CHANGING WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce If we hadnt gone with Siempre, Luis as the title of this documentary, we wouldve gone with Relentless. Because thats the spirit of Luis Miranda. Hes dedicated his life to making meaningful political change. From working in New York City Mayor Ed Kochs administration as the director of Hispanic affairs, and then helping to elect some of the countrys most powerful politicians, like Chuck Schumer and Hillary Clinton. We started filming just after he had a heart attack and had no idea where the story would go. But we believed in the man. In his moral fiber. In his conscience. In his intelligence. There was no narrative structure at the beginning. We couldnt plan one. We just had to try and keep up with him. The man doesnt stop.  WHAT EVER YOU DO... DONT STAND IN HIS WAY But there was no way we could know what was going to happen. The devastation in Puerto Rico from Hurricane Maria. His commitment to help rebuild. Luis and his son Lin-Manuel working to stage Hamilton in Puerto Rico. When we got into the editing suite, we had about 350 hours of film to work with. But the through line was clear: it was Luis, his character, his relentlessness. During the editing process, the editor — who is an old hand in this business — came out of the booth one Monday afternoon, deep in thought. He said to me: This is a man who is teaching us how to live a life. I couldnt put it better. John James Director Siempre, Luis Watch an exclusive interview Watch the trailer WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Storytelling that celebrates diversity is how we build understanding and empathy. Thats why our animation creators give it their all. E FOR EVERYONE Craig of the Creek WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce The show that puts a nuclear Black family at its heart as Craig and his friends, like Wren, embark on epic adventures in the untamed wilderness of their neighborhood.  Im both a show writer on Craig of the Creek and the voice of Wren. Shes a science geek! Wren has a pencil in her hair and speaks really fast about her quantum mechanics experiments. I love being part of a series thats filled with diverse characters. At the heart of this is Craig, a young boy living his best Black life. As a Black woman who grew up living a life pretty similar to Craigs, Im honored that I can bring my authenticity to this experience. And I think that authenticity is what everyone on the show brings. It takes nine months to make an episode and we pour everything into it. The jokes come from our crews real experiences, the characters come from our family members, and moments like Craigs grandma sharing her activist stories are ones that not only resonate, but they also give us the chance to frame our history. Craig of the Creek helps share the complete Black experience. We are surgeons. We are nerds. We are scientists. We are teachers. We are showing kids we can be everything. Ashleigh Hairston Writer and voice of Wren Craig of the Creek Ashleigh Hairston Watch Craig of the Creek videos P lay games and watch your favorite Cartoon Network shows WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce We Baby Bears Exploring new cultures and species in fantastical lands, all from the perspective of three baby bears, looking to find their perfect home.  The show is a prequel to We Bare Bears, which you can translate to Were just trying to fit in. I think all people of color in our country can feel that sentiment. But with this show I changed the title to We Baby Bears or We are who we are. That seemed to fit because the babies are traveling to different places as tourists. The stories all come from a childs point of view. I wanted the show to celebrate each culture/race/ species/pronoun/personality by having the very innocent, but incredibly open-minded, baby bears share their experiences. As we have such a healthy amount of diversity on our crew, we are able to incorporate our experiences into our episodes. For example, we have a non-binary person on our team who voices one of our characters. Not only are they a wonderful actor, but we also have the pleasure of asking them about their experiences. Which is a great inspiration for the stories we want to share.  Victor and Valentino The myths and legends of Mesoamerican folklore come to life in Monte Macabre, home to two half-brothers and their grandmother.  The stories in Victor and Valentino are the stories I grew up with. I wanted to show the world how fascinating and relevant Mesoamerican mythology and Latino folklore are. My grandmother always told me about La Lechuza, a freaky giant owl lady that would swoop down and capture misbehaving children in their talons. One day I hid from my grandmother in the nearby woods to avoid doing chores. I got lost for hours, squeezing my eyes shut so I wouldnt see La Lechuza. As it got darker, I was sure La Lechuza was coming Any story I make for kids is important to me. But the younger generation is smarter and more open-minded than I could ever be, so I dont think I could ever try to educate. I just try to make stories that wouldve inspired or entertained me at their age. Genuine representation comes with being an open-minded storyteller and pushing your storytelling abilities to the next level. Manny Hernandez Executive producer because I saw two glowing orbs getting closer. Turns out they were flashlights from my grandmother and her search party. I was terrified and relieved. I think people respond to the family aspect of the show. Latinx families are close and we have many friends, so I think kids can see themselves in the show. Also, some of the stories we write come from pretty dark myths and legends, and I think both kids and adults like to be scared, and share in that experience. Victor and Valentino matters because I dont want us to forget our past. The show goes into our Indigenous history and explores it through a modern Latinx lens. I made a conscious decision to represent a variety of Latinx themes and experiences so that kids can feel counted, represented, worthy and important. Diego Molano Creator/Executive Producer Manny Hernandez Diego Molano Games, quizzes, videos and apps — theres more fun here WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce IF YOU SLAY Legendary The in-your-face reality show Legendary brings all the attitude. It also brings a lot of respect.  YOU STAY House of Tisci (Season 2) WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce This show has made me perform harder. When I look at the work they put in, I am like, bitch what am I doing with my life? Megan Thee Stallion, judge This is authentic. Youre getting real performances from the actual community. Theyre putting their lives on the floor Dashaun Wesley, emcee Yes, Legendary is about shining a light on the dramatically underrepresented ballroom scene. Yes, its about the incredible fashion, the extreme choreography and the power of the house families. Yes, its about the $100,000 prize. And yes, its about the attitude, the voguing, the dips, the duckwalks. But its also about respect. Heres how the Legendary judges see the power of the new HBO Max series. WERE ABLE TO NOT ONLY SHOW THE INCREDIBLE FASHION AND PRODUCTION VALUES, BUT THE STORIES OF THE INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS OF EACH HOUSE Law Roach, judge THIS SHOW HAS GIVEN A LOT OF RESPECT TO OUR COMMUNITY. YOU SEE HOW MUCH WORK WE PUT IN AND WHY THESE HOUSES ARE SO IMPORTANT TO US Leiomy Maldonado, judge Ballroom has gifted so much to our fashion, performance and dance culture — this show gives ballroom the chance to finally take center stage Jameela Jamil, judge A re you ready to see a battle? Zay of House of Lanvin Cali of House of Balmain Shyanne of House of Escada House of Ricki Wilma of House of West WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Suicide Squad The new Aboriginal superhero in the DC Universe is a powerful Ngarluma hunter from the Pilbara in Australia. Codenamed Thylacine, shes the first Indigenous Australian character in the Suicide Squads 33-year history and is, according to her co-creator, Tom Taylor, the one who can walk into any situation and walk back out again alive. Thylacine leapt into life alongside a diverse team of 10 other heroes, including the non-binary The Aerie and Puerto Rican soldier Osita. But Thylacine was the character that her creators sought the most consultation for. They teamed up with the Darwin-born Bardi, Jabirr-Jabirr actress and director Shari Sebbens whose focus was on authenticity. Every element — from the characters civilian name to skin color, ancestral land and powers — had to be rooted in a real connection with the land where the now- extinct thylacine once roamed. A SUPERHERO FOR EVERYONE Find out more about the consultation process WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce What happens when Phil Mickelson, Charles Barkley, Stephen Curry and Peyton Manning head into the desert? They raise more than $6.4 million for meaningful change, while entertaining fans along the way. In November 2020, Turner Sports presented The Match: Champions for Change, a premier live golf competition featuring icons of their sport when Mickelson and Barkley teamed up against Manning and Curry at Stone Canyon Golf Club in Arizona. There were many highlights from the event, but none more so than the funds raised in support of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and the awareness built to advance equity in sports. Nearly four million meals were also donated through Feeding America in association with the event. All four athletes have supported equity and inclusion initiatives throughout their careers and The Match offered a platform to expand those contributions. It also gave viewers the opportunity to watch Barkley steal the show and win his first championship. Leading into the event, expectations were low for Barkley (a 25-handicapper) but his new-found confidence, retooled swing mechanics and Mickelsons coaching led them to the improbable victory. The $6.4 million raised through The Match was used to support athletic and journalistic programs at several HBCUs including Howard University, Morehouse College and Jackson State University, said Johnita Due, SVP and Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer, WarnerMedia News and Sports. This compelling content is a strong example of how sports and athletes can effect change and make a difference in the communities we serve. Heres why the athletes played for HBCUs Subtle trash talk and one-liners from Mickelson The Match: Champions for Change THE MATCH THAT RAISED MILLIONS Phil Mickelson Charles Barkley Peyton Manning Stephen Curry WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce What if the news youre watching is incomplete? To truly achieve diversity in newsrooms around the world, you would more than likely have to hire a more diverse staff. In most newsrooms, theres rarely enough representation – especially for people of color – to adequately reflect the community these newsrooms serve. Delano Massey Head of CNNs Race & Equality Unit 71 / 105 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce If theres a lack of diversity, it could mean the editorial decisions are held by people who might not have the same lived experience as the very people they are trying to cover. And when you look at news through one group or persons lens, youre limiting yourself and the news is incomplete. Its imperative that newsrooms do a better job of listening to their communities, internally and externally, in an effort to close that gap. Weeks after George Floyd died, Jeff Zucker, the Chairman of WarnerMedia News and Sports, and I discussed how we could incorporate race into coverage to provide more balance — a fresh lens — and to ensure that our coverage was more impactful. We should not cover what happens in society by helicoptering in; it should be thoughtful and inclusive. Because race is part of everything. Think about sports, and the impact LeBron James made when he wore a red Breonna Taylor hat during a press conference. Or health, and how Covid unearthed disparities in testing or vaccinations. Or education, and how conversations in D.C. about critical race theory are now impacting what will be taught in schools. Explore the teams work 2020: THE YEAR AMERICA CONFRONTED RACISM December 2020 When Sean Monterrosa became another Latino killed by police, his sisters fought back Published Mon June 21, 2021  One year later, Breonna Taylors mother and advocates still want accountability for the police who killed her Updated March 13, 2021 Native Americans werent alone on the Trail of Tears. Enslaved Africans were, too Updated May 9, 2021 THEIR COMMUNITIES ARE DESERTED BY PHARMACIES. ADVOCATES FEAR THIS WILL LEAD TO INEQUITABLE VACCINE ACCESS Updated December 24, 2020 Why hate crime data cant capture the true scope of anti-Asian violence Updated March 18, 2021 The Race & Equality unit launched in July 2020. Im the team leader but Im not an expert in all cultures and in all things race. Im constantly learning. And I think it is important to empower others. Senior Race Editor Dalila Paul has been a tremendous partner with a unique depth of knowledge. Data Editor Priya Krishnakumar is immensely talented and helps us tell smarter stories. Nicquel Terry Ellis and Nicole Chavez have different interests, sources and backgrounds; everyone who assists our core team has a different lived experience, and that helps keep us honest. That lived experience helps us understand where the story is, who we need to question and why. Ultimately, were trying to tell the stories that wouldnt be covered otherwise. We work across beats and bureaus, coordinate with different platforms, and people come to us now to weigh in on stories, scripts and shows. The work were doing helps our network tell more complete stories. And when we get it right, it can actually make a difference. For my part, journalism is a calling. I want to do the work that properly captures the historic record and truly provides a voice for those who have often been voiceless. Delano Massey WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce CLASSICS THE FRAMED RE TCM presents the greatest classic films of all time. But how do you view 20th- century films when you have a 21st-century perspective? The answer: by adding rich historical context. WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce What to know when youre watching Gone with the Wind This is one of the most enduringly popular films of all time. It won eight Academy Awards in 1939 and, adjusted for inflation, is the highest-grossing film ever. But Gone with the Wind was not universally praised. The film has been repeatedly protested, dating back to the announcement of its production. Producer David O. Selznick was well aware that Black audiences were deeply concerned about the films handling of the topic of slavery and its treatment of Black characters. Before shooting began, Selznick assured the NAACP that he was sensitive to the feelings of minority peoples. Despite these assurances, the film follows the lead of Margaret Mitchells novel. Presenting the antebellum South as a world of grace and beauty, without acknowledging the brutality of the systems of chattel slavery upon which this world is based. The films treatment of this world through the lens of nostalgia denies the horrors of slavery as well as its legacies of racial inequality. However, Gone with the Wind is a valuable document of and testimony to Black performance Jacqueline Stewart Alicia Malone What to know when youre watching Breakfast at Tiffanys Mickey Rooneys performance as Mr. Yunioshi is so painful to watch because it is such a broad stereotype. There was a lot of anti-Japanese sentiment in the 1960s and this role speaks to the racist humor that was still considered acceptable. Blake Edwards, the director, encouraged Rooney to go overboard, and Im still confused about why he had to be Japanese at all. I think Rooney couldve played the role as a bumbling, clumsy white landlord. This role is also an example of a long history of yellowface make-up in Hollywood. Where white actors — like Katharine Hepburn and Reframed: Classic Films in the Rearview Mirror At TCM, we show more than 3,000 movies a year, said host Ben Mankiewicz. And our wheelhouse is films from the 1930s, 40s and 50s, so its inevitable that some of these films will have content thats problematic as weve changed and grown as a society. Rather than removing or editing the films from their screens, TCM addressed this by adding historical context via panel discussions to 18 legendary films in its series Reframed: Classic Films in the Rearview Mirror. Any time you edit an offensive film or delete a film from the canon, said host Alicia Malone, youre saying in a sense that racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia never existed. With Reframed, were working to keep these films alive for younger generations, by showing you can love a classic film and critique it at the same time. during an era when substantial roles for Black talent were extremely rare in Hollywood films. The actors, particularly Hattie McDaniel in her Oscar-winning performance as Mammy and Butterfly McQueen as the comically inept Prissy, bring notable humanity to their stereotypical roles. Too often, these characters are deemed either harmless or harmful. Jacqueline Stewart TCM host Marlon Brando — were made up to look like Japanese, Chinese and other Asian characters. This meant that Asian Americans werent able to play Asian characters on camera. Alicia Malone TCM host Heres how classic films can help us have productive conversations about race F ind out about TCMs Reframed series E xplore the LGBTQ+ themes in Psycho and The Childrens Hour W ant more? Explore how we celebrated women in film Ben Mankiewicz WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce When comic fans had to stay home in 2020, we stepped up. Introducing DC FanDome. A multiverse with worlds for all DC fans. There is no fan like a DC fan, and with DC FanDome we could give everyone access, without lines, without tickets and without boundaries. This was a truly inclusive experience, fans from over 220 countries joined us in this massive, immersive digital event. At DC FanDome, fans could connect with their favorite characters, go behind the scenes with the talent who bring them to life on screen and page, share their fan art, watch the exclusive launches and explore everything on their terms. This was exciting, unparalleled and well be bringing it back in 2021. DC FanDome NO LINES NO TICKETS NO BOUNDARIES Ann Sarnoff Chair and CEO of WarnerMedias Studios and Networks Group WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce WW84 reveal It wasnt just that Gal Gadot and Chris Pine were back for Wonder Woman 1984 — but that Kristen Wiig really went all out as the villainous Cheetah.  A preview of Nubia Wonder Woman is the most famous Amazon, but shes not the only Amazon. Nubia, her twin sister, is one of the earliest Black superheroes. Fans were treated to a preview of Nubia: Real One, the story of Nubia as she comes into her own — and her reality gets really complicated. Gotham Knights game reveal Fans waited a year for the new Warner Bros. Games title. The developers really stepped up: there was an extended cinematic trailer and audiences met the playable characters — including Batgirl. You Brought Me the Ocean Q&A Theres nothing safe about Jake. Not his attraction to Kenny or the blue markings on his skin. What will he find when he searches for his identity? We hosted an exclusive Q&A with author Alex Sánchez and GLSEN, and the young adult graphic novel was published during Pride Month. Return of Milestone The return of Milestone was a well-kept secret. Static. Icon. Rocket. Hardware. The classic Dakotaverse heroes are back with new comic book series. Milestone celebrated Black nerd culture long before blerd was even a term. Nubia has always been a little bit...different. As a baby she showcased Amazonian strength by pushing over a tree to rescue her neighbors cat. But despite Nubias similar abilities, the world has no problem telling her that shes no Wonder Woman. And even if she were, they wouldnt want her. Every time she comes to the rescue, shes reminded of how people see her: as a threat. Her moms do their best to keep her safe, but Nubia cant deny the fire within her, even if shes a little awkward about it sometimes. Even if it means people assume the worst. When Nubias best friend, Quisha, is threatened by a boy who thinks he owns the town, Nubia will risk it all——her safety, her home, and her crush on that cute kid in English class——to become the hero society tells her she isnt. From the witty and powerful voice behind A Blade So Black, L.L. McKinney, and with endearing and expressive art by Robyn Smith, comes a vital story for today about equality, identity, and kicking it with your squad. Featuring a stirring introduction by Dhonielle Clayton, New York Times bestselling author of the Belles series and COO of the nonprofit organization We Need Diverse Books. Witty, powerful, and revolutionary... ——Dhonielle Clayton, New York Times Bestselling author of the Belles series GRAPHIC NOVELS FOR YOUNG ADULTS $16.99 USA $22.99 CAN ISBN: 978-1-4012-9640-7 dccomics.com NUBIA_Final_CVR.indd 1 NUBIA_Final_CVR.indd 1 12/16/20 1:19 PM 12/16/20 1:19 PM Highlights from DC FanDome 2020 Watch the official gameplay walkthrough W atch the trailer Explore the graphic novel Watch the official trailer F ind more Milestone here Watch the official teaser trailer Black Adam first view Dwayne Johnson has joined the DC universe as the star of Black Adam. FanDome was all about deepening the fan experience, and for Black Adam audiences saw concept art of the Shazam spin-off, a first look at Black Adams costume and an official teaser. From the world-renowned comics and graphic novels, films and TV shows, games and products, DC believes in moving the world forward through story, showing up for our fans around the globe and bringing them together though rich storytelling and diverse and compelling characters. DC FanDome celebrates that and so much more. The epic global event was created specifically for the fans, and every element of the programming was designed to deepen the fan experience across everything that is DC. Pam Lifford President WarnerMedia Global Brands and Experiences 76 / 105 WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce HBO Max has signed a two-year, first-look deal with the Oscar-winning actress and producer, in which her company, Ventanarosa, will bring projects to the streaming platform first. Lin Yu-Ling The Golden-Bell-winning producer, Yu-Ling, is set to roll out Workers for HBO Asia. Its a six-episode, Chinese- language comedy-drama set in Taiwan, following a group of construction workers and their countless outrageous get-rich-quick schemes. The former NBA superstar will take on a number of roles across the WarnerMedia portfolio in his multi- platform deal: from sports analyst and game- show host on TNT to creative director for Bleacher Report, Wade is a champion of creating custom content experiences for young sports fans. Ava DuVernay WBTV has teamed up with the extraordinary writer-producer-director Ava DuVernay to create a number of upcoming power-packed projects including HBO Max limited series DMZ starring Rosario Dawson, Naomi, a teen superhero story from DC for The CW and the animated family series Wings of Fire. Meet Cartoon Networks first-ever musician-in-residence, 10-year-old drumming sensation Nandi Bushell, who will create a range of multiplatform content for the channel. DWYANE WADE NANDI BUSHELL Were proud to be in business with some of the most remarkable and prolific storytellers of this generation and the next. We look forward to more bold and innovative stories from them. Powerhouse storytellers Salma Hayek WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Matthew A. Cherry The Oscar-winning director of Hair Love signed a first-look, multi-year deal with Warner Bros. Television and will be developing comedies, dramas, as well as long-form/event series for broadcast, cable and streaming services. Angela Robinson Award-winning TV writer/director/ producer Angela Robinson will create and produce original scripted television programming exclusively through WBTV for a variety of outlets. Weve extended our relationship with Emmy-winning Insecure creator, signing a five-year overall deal with her media company, Hoorae. The deal is exclusive to WarnerMedia for television, including HBO, HBO Max and Warner Bros. Television, and a first look for features with Warner Bros. Pictures Group, New Line and HBO Max. Look out for Mindy Kalings next projects on HBO Max. First up is new live-action comedy The Sex Life of College Girls, then Velma, an upcoming animated origin story of the beloved Scooby Doo character. Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa The creative force behind WBTVs growing Archie-comics-based TV universe, Aguirre-Sacasa is also behind the upcoming Pretty Little Liars: Original Sin for HBO Max. Ta-Nehisi Coates The acclaimed essayist and novelist is penning the script for the new Warner Bros. Superman film, which will be produced by J.J. Abrams. I look forward to meaningfully adding to the legacy of Americas most iconic mythic hero, says Coates. Robert Rodríguez Weve signed a first-look deal with the prolific Mexican American filmmaker who introduced the world to Salma Hayek in Desperado. Hes since gone on to direct hits like Spy Kids, Sin City, and The Mandalorian. After tremendous success with Watchmen and Westworld for HBO, Carly Wray is expanding into a multi-year overall relationship with WBTV to develop, write and produce a female-focused slate for HBO and HBO Max, among others. Mindy Kaling ISSA RAE CARLY WRAY WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce WERE INVESTING IN FUTURE TALENT WERE INVESTING IN FUTURE TALENT WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce WERE INVESTING IN FUTURE TALENT WERE INVESTING IN FUTURE TALENT The events of 2020 were traumatic, but they highlighted the importance of what we do. How the news we share shapes our understanding, and the stories we tell shape our culture. This is why we need to spread our net wide for storytellers. Its why we need to give our talent the support they need to grow their skills with us. All of this will help us be a better business. Karen Horne SVP, Pipeline Programs WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Claudia Forestieri Writer, creator, executive producer What if you mostly see negative stereotypes of yourself on screen? When I decided to become a TV writer, it was because I wanted to create three- dimensional Latino characters who were like the people in my family. It wasnt easy growing up seeing so many negative stereotypes on TV about immigrants, especially because they didnt reflect my reality. WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce It took many years to break into the industry. Thankfully, just being a finalist for the HBO Access writing program impresses the hell out of people. Once I was in the program, I was able to elevate my writing. Like understanding how to create an intriguing, complex protagonist and breaking down beliefs I didnt even realize were holding me back. The connections and support were a huge boost to my writers ego. They gave me the nudge I needed to believe I had the potential to make it. Im now in production on my own show, Gordita Chronicles. Its giving me a chance to share all those hilarious and sometimes heart-breaking lessons I learned as a chubby child immigrant who didnt quite fit the American girl mold. It takes a village to create a show like this. Eva Longoria is a force of nature who is channeling her acting experience into directing newcomers. Zoe Saldaña and her sisters not only help us craft an authentic show but also contributed to casting and pre-production. Plus, this might be the first sitcom about a Dominican family on American television. There are two-million-plus Dominican Americans in the U.S. and Im eager to help the next generation see that despite the labels society might force on them, they have the power to create their own destiny. Claudia Forestieri An alumni of our Access Writers program Seeing this Latina team in action was a really emotional moment for me Eva Longoria Executive producer, director The Latina team who brought Gordita Chronicles to life. From left: executive producer and showrunner Brigitte Muñoz- Liebowitz; executive producers Zoë, Cisely and Mariel Saldaña from Cinestar Pictures; director and executive producer Eva Longoria; and writer, creator and executive producer Claudia Forestieri WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce For writers The WarnerMedia Access Writers Program, formerly the HBO Access Writing Fellowship, is a multi-month program for narrative TV writers. How? Designed to support marginalized voices, the program consists of instruction, mentorship and exposure across the enterprise. Impact? 79% of alumni have staffed across the industry, and 54% of writers have worked across our brands, including on the recent Gossip Girl reboot, Pretty Little Liars and Head of Class for HBO Max and CWs Two Sentence Horror Stories. For directors The WarnerMedia Access Directors Program is an expansion of the HBO Directing Fellowship. How? Emerging directors from underrepresented groups are given the opportunity to shadow a live project and be part of masterclasses with industry professionals such as Jay Roach, Nkechi Okoro Carroll and Mark Mylod.  Impact? 90% of the directing alumni are working in the industry, with 56% on WarnerMedia projects, including Insecure, The Last O.G. and All American. For production crews Our Access to Action Program offers people who havent traditionally had the pathways into our industry with access to below-the-line jobs and training opportunities.  How?  Trainee crew members and production assistants (PAs) are given placements on TV and film productions, so they can learn from experienced crew members.  Impact?  In 2020, despite production shutdowns and Covid restrictions, we placed 60 PAs across our productions. Insecure Seasons 4 and 5 were able to include 15 PAs from Access to Action.  For virtual production assistants The WarnerMedia Access Virtual Production Assistant Program is a first-of-its-kind, 10-week paid placement that gives skilled talent the opportunity to help our growing world of virtual production. Candidates will be recruited based on their foundational skills in VFX, Unreal Engine, virtual and/or physical production, and will work at the newly built V Stage at WB Studios Leavesden, U.K. For scripted showrunners The WarnerMedia Access Showrunners Program prepares more experienced writers to step into decision-making roles with leadership training and practical day-to-day knowledge.  For unscripted showrunners The WarnerMedia Access Unscripted Program provides up-and-coming producers and directors with mentorship and shadowing opportunities with HBO Max.  For animators The HBO Max X WarnerMedia Access Animated Shorts Program is focused on discovering and nurturing underrepresented voices in primetime animation. The program will provide participants with tools, training and mentorship to support the creation of their original animated short while also exposing them to the business of animation.  Were creating more access into our industry Explore the WarnerMedia Access programs, mentorship, placement opportunities and industry exposure WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 83 / 105 As part of WarnerMedias Go-Global strategy, the WarnerMedia Access Canada team was formed in September 2020. Its aim is to connect underrepresented local talent with access and opportunities across our brands, in both above- and below-the-line roles. Access Canada is a blueprint for how well rollout our global program. Its not a one-size-fits-all system, says Karen Horne, SVP of Pipeline Programs. Our approach is to partner with local experts so we can offer access to our brands but with the understanding of what the different communities in each market need. In Canada, one of the communities were working with is the Indigenous community, she says, to ensure that people have the access and training to control how their stories are told and how theyre depicted on screen. Access Canada includes... Writers & Directors Programs In partnership with the Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television, the writers and directors programs are designed for experienced writers and directors, with a focus on decision-making and leadership skills. The curriculum includes mentorship from executives and showrunners and exposure to the enterprises creative processes.  Access to Action A below-the-line talent initiative designed to match talent with entry-level roles on WarnerMedia TV and film productions in Canada. Vocational Training Initiative An investment in vocational training programs with an emphasis on below-the-line talent, to build pathways into the TV, film and games industries.  Film Festival Initiative We develop new and support existing film festival initiatives including incubation programs, masterclasses and panel discussions with WarnerMedia executives and talent.  Special Projects To support the next generation of TV, film and game storytellers, we invest in non-profit and local organizations on a project- by-project basis.  WB Games Initiative There are multiple partnerships between WB Games Studio in Montreal and key organizations to support local cultural and charitable initiatives connected with the gaming community.  Explore WarnerMedia Access programs Were building out our global access programs Kung Fu was shot in and around Vancouver Snowpiercer was shot in Langley, British Columbia WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 84 / 105 Axel W. Caballero VP and Head of WarnerMedia OneFifty What if theres not enough space for new artists? We work with artists from around the world and one of the things I hear most frequently is oh, I didnt think there would be space or support for art like mine. At WarnerMedia OneFifty, we exist to find and support those new artists and voices. Ones that are irreverent, subversive and unpredictable. Ones that work across any media. Exactly the things you wouldnt expect to hear from a major entertainment brand. WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Thats because we have plenty of experts who can package content for us, but what about the future? Whats the raw voice behind the noise? Thats the voice that will inspire the content of tomorrow. Were firmly artist first in our approach. We provide no-strings- attached grants to help artists develop their idea. Our only ask is that we have a right of first refusal or a first look at developing the completed work. To find these artists, we partner with over 200 artistic institutions around the world that, on average, have between 500 and 1,000 creators each. Often more. These partners – we call them co-conspirators – help us tap into this universe of creativity. Were also endless scrolling through social media. We found Jordan Hendrickson on Instagram (@jhendricksonart) painting a self-portrait and thought hes great. We dug a little deeper and found a whole catalog of ridiculously amazing work. Now hes working with us on his adult-buddy-cop animation Darween. Or the work we did with Tomer Shushan whose White Eye was Oscar nominated and whose next proof of concept were funding. In addition to early investment, we also acquire completed work and work on the development of content for all our brands. At OneFifty, were not a program, a talent pipeline or a development area. Were an artistic studio where content innovation happens. Its pretty awesome. Axel W. Caballero Rafia, A Brilliant Mind The artist Amatus-Sami Karim- Alis mother-in-law had Alzheimers and it made it very hard for the two of them to communicate. This is the origin story for an incredibly beautiful transmedia piece that allows us to go inside a brain affected by Alzheimers. Son of Monarchs Alexis Gambis examines the immigration story in a metaphysical way, with a shaman who transforms into a jaguar. Alexis was awarded at Sundance for this work, and it is incredible. The judges praised it for its poetic, multilayered portrait of a scientists growth and self-discovery as he migrates between Mexico and New York City. DONT MAKE ME CHOOSE says Axel Caballero on recent OneFifty artists work Read more about it here See inside a brilliant mind WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce The Extra-Ordinaries Diego Salazar Castro created an animated comedy for smart kids about race, privilege and spandex. Theres so much to love about this work, but I especially love the comic book he created to go alongside the animation. Godspeed This is Celia C. Peters Afrofuturism meets sexy psychological thriller with theoretical physics. Its transmedia with augmented reality. Ha! Imagine pitching that at a network. Celia is amazing, her mind works in such an exciting way. Dive into Godspeed With no powers come some responsibility... Explore OneFifty H ear Axel on the future of entertainment WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce 87 / 105 Diana Mogollón SVP and General Manager of Stage 13 Hollywood and the entertainment industry are pretty format- and category-driven. You have set blocks of time for shows and specific requirements for film. But what happens if you have a great idea but it doesnt quite fit that structure? What if your pitch isnt business ready? WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Two Sentence Horror Stories Were now into the fourth season of this award-winning horror anthology show inspired by the popular fan fiction. Created by Vera Miao, each standalone episode delves into a relevant social thematic centering a diverse point of view within a subgenre of horror — all brought to life by a superb roster of talent, including many first-time TV writers and directors. So, from a company standpoint, youve got a goldmine of storytelling: 35 original IP stories from distinct creative auspices representing different cultures with global appeal. Family Style We work with all types of clients who are looking to reach new audiences. When Toyota approached us wanting to speak authentically to the AAPI community, we saw the opportunity to create the unscripted series Family Style. It allowed us to lean in into established audiences across social and connect Toyota as part of these meaningful stories of Asian food and culture. Well, thats where we step in. At Stage 13, we create, incubate and innovate talent and IP (intellectual property.) We work across genres, across scripted and unscripted shows and were format agnostic. If you have a great, distinctive idea, we can help you develop it. But its not just about the creative. Its also understanding the business and production models across the industry that align with the needs of various platforms to activate audiences. Looking at both the creative and operational side of it means were asking a lot of questions. How do we set the writer up for success? Whats the best team to produce this story? Whats the audience were trying to reach? How do you market this content? How do you PR it? Our focus is really holistic because we want this work to be a pathway to more. Were creating cities not buildings! When we started out, our focus was on short-form, direct-to- consumer content because that was the big opportunity. We wanted stories that were going to move us. Make us feel something in a very provocative, unapologetic way. If it felt done or diluted — then it wasnt for us. Even as we expanded into other genres and formats in television/ film content — weve created over 200 episodes since 2016 — that DNA has not changed. Were still looking for that special connection. It means we find talent and stories in incredible places. Like Cesar Mazariegos, who was working in a mortuary while honing his craft as a writer. His show High & Mighty is a Stage 13 Original and now hes working on The Simpsons as a writer/producer. Sometimes you know the story will work, other times its a leap of faith. But when youve fallen in love with the idea, you want to do everything you can to bring it to life and ultimately help the creator play to win. Diana Mogollón THESE STORIES REALLY MOVED ME says Stage 13s Diana Mogollón Special We loved how fearless Ryan OConnell was. We met him after several buyers passed on the project. People loved the pitch but were uncertain how to tell a story of a gay man with cerebral palsy. When we heard the pitch, we immediately said yes! Jim Parsons, the executive producer, and Ryan were open to a short-form version of the show. Netflix gave us a straight-to-series order and it became a hit, so a full half-hour second season was ordered. It earned multiple Emmy nominations and Ryan is about to publish a novel, has an HBO Max series in development with WBTV, a feature in the works with Greg Berlanti and was named on the Time 100 Next List. Explore a world of horror J ump into Stage 13 D ish up Family Style W hy be normal when you can be Special? WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce The first thing you learn working in multicultural marketing is that our audiences have a rich variety of experiences and characteristics within each community. Theyre not defined by singular labels. With the launch of HBO Max, we have the opportunity to reach more of the Latinx community in more places, so my team looked at how we could connect with this intersectional audience. Our approach is HBO Max Palante. Our starting point was our content. Weve got such a variety of Latinx storytelling, thanks to HBO Latino, a linear service. There are award-winning original series from Latin America, Spanish-language films from Spain, the U.S. and the Caribbean, comedy and music concerts. So we know we have Latinx content from Latinx creators. Then we have vibrant communities that weve built up across our HBO Latino social channels, and the decades-long partnerships with organizations such as the New York Latino Film Festival. What if your audience isnt defined by labels? Finally, we use our personal experience. Im a first-generation Cuban American. I am ambicultural in that I have a wholly American side, and a wholly Latina side. Both are important, both are entirely me. Having the content, the communities and the lived experiences allowed us to create HBO Max Palante. A social initiative where were truly audience first because we work to appeal — via language, via storytelling, via representation, via shared experiences — to the different aspects of the people within our communities. Palante allows us to showcase new voices, to share great content, to support our artists, to connect with our partners and to celebrate all aspects of our cultures. Jackie Gagne SVP, Multicultural Marketing, HBO Find out more about Palante F ollow us on Instagram F ollow us on Facebook F ollow us on Twitter WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce TV Writers Workshop Weve run the Warner Bros. TV Writers Workshop face-to-face for 40 years. This year, the masterclasses and simulated writers room went virtual. And the result was... still the same high standard. Participants completed a new spec script under production-standard deadlines and developed an original pilot. WarnerMedia Access Virtual Comedy Showcase As comedy clubs stayed shut, stand-up comedians needed a new way to reach industry execs. We curated an evening of up-and- coming comics, broadcasting it live to our comedy programming execs across our brands. Each of these comedians is positioned for next level success, said Karen Horne, our Pipeline Programs SVP. Our job was to remove barriers to help them achieve it. Warner Bros. Studio Tour Learning How do we inspire U.K. school students to consider a future in our industry? We share the extraordinary artistry, technology and talent — and some behind- the-scenes secrets — that go into the creation of some of our most famous films. The U.K. creative industries are growing three times faster than the rest of the economy, yet theres still a skills shortage. This may be because young people dont see a career in the creative industries as a viable option. Our Learning Programme at Warner Bros. Studio Tour addresses this by highlighting the different roles and skillsets that are required to make a film. Students who join us get to design characters costumes and makeup, they discover the tools and tricks of a foley artist, they learn about the technical skills needed to bring a film to life — and a whole lot more. In 2020, when schools had to close their doors, we responded by adapting our entire education programme for online delivery. We created 26 virtual learning resources to inspire students from their own homes. Once schools reopened, but the Studio Tour remained closed, we adapted our hands-on sessions so that they could be delivered virtually directly into classrooms across the U.K. This new approach meant we could reach up to 500 students in one virtual lesson. Julie Green Education and Learning Manager Warner Bros. Studio Tour London Explore the workshop Explore the lessons Three ways our teams adapted during the pandemic shutdowns. NEW WAYS TO CONNECT Daniel Webb Karen Horne WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce In 2020, for the third consecutive year, Cartoon Network Latin America called on female creators to pitch their new show ideas in Girl Power: Pitch Me The Future. The prize: all the resources of Cartoon Network to help create a pilot and showcase it across the brands platforms. The winners, Luisa Velásquez and Silvia Prietov from Colombia, talk about the journey of Astropackers. All I saw was smiles WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce The origin story Silvia: Since I was a little girl I knew I wanted to work in animation because when I saw artists drawing — it blew my mind. To create something from scratch was like a magical superpower. And I was obsessed with Cartoon Network. Dexters Laboratory was genius! Luisa: My story is one of transformation. I was a web designer but I lost my motivation. Animation was magical, it gave me a vocation. The challenge Luisa: The opportunity to study anything in animation in Colombia is so scarce. And there are so few women in our industry. Silvia: Beside education, the macho attitude can make it difficult. I had one director tell me hed never let me direct. But these things make us want to be unstoppable. This is why I decided to give talented people in my country the opportunity to learn animation and create beautiful things. I set up Studio Lucy Animation in 2016. The competition Silvia: I remember the pitch to the Cartoon Network team was hard. I was so nervous. It had to be in English and there were so many characters and aliens in our story to share. But what I remember most was the smiles from the judges. All I saw was smiles. That was wonderful. Luisa: I really wanted to convey the emotional aspect of Astropackers. While I was happy about their praise of the story, the moment a judge asked about a character by name — that was when I knew we had connected. The new friendship Silvia: Its been wonderful working with Cartoon Network Latin America on Astropackers. Every meeting is a highlight, the team there have incredible vibes and a great sense of humor. Luisa: When we started working together we saw how the collaboration deepened and evolved. They listened to us. We felt real support and that they walked along with us all the way. A celebration Silvia: Id love to see Astropackers out in the world because it is so very Latin American — without falling into stereotypes. We have everyday situations, and we imbue them with fantasy and magic. Luisa: Every story, every character, every joke has a Latin American flavor. But its still about the human experience with a big sense of humor. The idea Silvia: Astropackers is a comedy set in a remote multiverse. Two aliens are immersed in a cosmic backpacking trip through nebulae, vast galaxies and mysterious black holes in search of their origins. Luisa: The story is based on my search for a new path. I felt stuck, so Felipe Rodriguez (a co-creator) and I went motorcycling through Latin America for two years. The journey reconnected me with my dreams, and thats where Astropackers was born. The favorite character Luisa: I love Norman Square, our main character. I identify with him a lot. He has so much potential and so many fears. Silvia: Norman has the ability to be whoever he wants to be. Hes not defined by gender. Sometimes hes Norman, sometimes shes a warrior. We look at inclusion from a different perspective, from one of empathy. Norman is pure empathy.  Norman Billy Silvia Prietov The Elder Lady More creative inspiration Warner Bros. Games is an official partner to BAFTA Young Game Designers in the U.K. The competition inspires 10-18 year olds to try their hand at game design. Luisa Velásquez F ind out more about BAFTA Young Game Designers WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce WERE STANDING UP FOR WHAT WE BELIEVE IN WERE STANDING UP FOR WHAT WE BELIEVE IN WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce WERE STANDING UP FOR WHAT WE BELIEVE IN WERE STANDING UP FOR WHAT WE BELIEVE IN Across our enterprise, we want to create systemic change because thats how well grow as a business and how well make real social impact. Anyone can create a PSA. Or write a check. Or back social justice organizations and charity partners. Thats not creating change, thats ticking a box. Creating change starts with understanding the landscape, choosing your partners, sharing your platforms, reach and skills. Dennis Williams SVP, Corporate Social Responsibility Communities WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Traditional corporate philanthropy — making commitments, working with partners, making donations — frequently makes very little difference. This is because these actions often do nothing to address the systemic inequity we all know exists, sometimes its because corporations just find it easier to write a check. Over the past year, weve been working to do more than just write a check. We took an opportunity to reassess who we work with and how we could truly engage with them. As a business, our power is in the narrative. Our platforms help shape culture around the world. So we decided to use the entirety of WarnerMedias resources to support social justice. This meant giving our partners both access to our platforms and the ability to shape the narrative themselves. Like the work we did with the NAACP, where Issa Rae fronted a PSA (public service announcement) encouraging people to become poll workers. The PSA was targeting Black audiences, and it was written, directed and produced by Black women. So our partner didnt just get our financial donation, but also our creative resources and audience reach. This approach was incredibly important when it came to the work we did during the pandemic. It was powerful to realize that we could play our part in saving lives. By educating and disseminating information, we could help people protect themselves and their loved ones. So, Ive stopped thinking about us as the corporate social responsibility team, and Ive started thinking about us as the social impact team. Because that is what were doing. Dennis Williams SVP, Corporate Social Responsibility What if we stop calling it corporate social responsibility? WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce $15 million pledged to stand up to racial inequity We shared our platform and resources with our partners so that they could shape the narratives History is made by everyday people, so vote early, vote by mail, vote, said the Color of Change PSA. Stop hurting us. Stop stereotyping us, said Jon M. Chu, Lisa Ling, Olivia Liang and other members of the AAPI community with the AAJC. Learn our history, because Asian American history is American history. Be a hero. Be a poll worker, said Issa Rae as she rallied volunteers for Power to the Polls. Im a human, just like you, said members of the trans community in the Human Rights Campaigns See each other. Save trans lives. In 2020, we committed to advancing social justice Alexis Abarca WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce We were humbled by how our employees stepped up We shared the success 100+ PSAs were distributed across the WarnerMedia ecosystem 1 billion+ earned impressions delivered 100 million+ viewers $100 million+ worth of creative resources and in-kind ad placements given to our partners 5,250+ employees volunteered 30,755 hours to help our communities They donated $2.6 million We added $2.3 million to support disaster relief and non-profit causes around the world. We championed civic responsibility We partnered with Rock the Vote to help young people build their political power. We also engaged and informed U.S. voters with our Citizen by CNN platform, where we paired our journalists with cultural newsmakers to discuss the major issues. We amplified these voices across our own channels Explore our action WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Like the Apollo Theater in NYC, the Southbank Centre in London and imagineNATIVE in Canada. We also contributed $1.6 million in funding to support over 40 identity-based, virtual film festivals. And we teamed up with the Ad Council to encourage everyone — from Bogart to Neo to Aquaman — to mask up and save lives. G ot questions about the Covid-19 vaccine? Youre not alone. CNNs Dr. Sanjay Gupta answers questions from Daveed Diggs in this Ad Council PSA. We supported our creators during the pandemic We helped the worlds most loved creative institutions We put public health first $100 million fund launched for U.S. production crews affected by the coronavirus shutdowns.  $750,000 emergency grants for freelancers in the U.K.s creative industries, via the Film and TV Charity, and the Theatre Artists Fund.  $25,000 donated plus all licensing fees and revenue raised from the comedy Ausgebremst was donated to #Kunstnothilfe in Germany.  In 2020, we put our arms around our communities Watch the video R ead more L isten to the podcast WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce To help every child feel accepted, Cartoon Network partnered with The National Black Justice Coalition. The result: a comic strip that teaches kids about gender pronouns and respect. Young people are often afraid to show up authentically for fear of sexism, homophobia and transphobia. But, when we normalize sharing pronouns, we normalize acceptance of everyone. We wanted young people who identified with those represented in the comics to feel seen and acknowledged. To know that their favorite cartoon brand supports them being themselves. We also wanted to speak to those who want to be allies, because sometimes children lack the words to express support and empathy. When the comic was released we received feedback like: I wish I had seen this sort of thing as a kid. I definitely would have come out sooner than I did, and It makes me feel seen, and it warms my heart. All the younger ones who get to see themselves on screen and know their favorite channel thinks theyre rad? YES. We know we have a far-reaching platform at Cartoon Network, so its our responsibility to spread love and acceptance. I was so proud to be part of this project. Mai Phung A rt Director at Cartoon Network Social Media WHEN HE OR SHE ISNT ME Mai Phung S ee the comic WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce The long hours and unpredictable schedules of the TV and film industry make raising a family tough. So Warner Bros. helped to launch The WonderWorks, the first full-time education facility for the under 5s at its Leavesden Studio in the U.K. In our industry, we are constantly working to ever evolving deadlines. You can come in to work one day and everything you have been working towards has changed; a revised schedule, sets brought forward, meetings moved... When youve got children who rely on structure, being told that a meeting has been moved to 8 a.m. becomes especially tricky. I often feel conflicted between my duties at work and the care I want to give as a mother. It got even trickier in 2020. Covid restrictions meant that the network of family and friends daughter is on site being given the best care. It means I can focus my attention where I need to and that I can accommodate last- minute changes. I dont see this as a childcare facility, but more an extension of my family and I have regained the support network that I felt Id lost. My daughter started at the The WonderWorks when she was 14 months old and loves it. She gets the freedom to explore, create and develop among her peers. When she comes home, she is always so excited to tell me about her day... well, as much as a toddler can! Rachel Ziegelmeier Production Buyer for Set Decoration Warner Bros. Studios, Leavesden I rely on for childcare was not able to support us. I felt incredibly isolated and really didnt know how I was going to manage. But I knew I had to because the lockdown and being on unpaid maternity leave meant I was financially unstable. The WonderWorks has meant everything to me. It has given me the opportunity to fulfil my duties at work, while knowing my THIS ISNT CHILDCARE, ITS AN EXTENSION OF MY FAMILY Rachel Explore The WonderWorks WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce POST-PRODUCTION CATERING SERVICES COSTUME DESIGNERS PROP MAKERS EVENT MANAGERS PHOTOGRAPHERS VIDEO EDITORS SECURITY SOUND ENGINEERING TRANSLATORS POST-PRODUCTION CATERING SERVICES Sharing our resources We know that suppliers from underrepresented groups struggle to get access into our industry. Were working to change this. We offer our partners access to our teams for more diverse crew hiring and more inclusive writers rooms. Weve also compiled The Red Book, a directory of businesses and suppliers run by women, people of color and the LGBTQ+ community — from sound technicians to boom operators to craft services and post-production. All certified. All experts. All talented. Were sharing The Red Book with other U.S. studios looking to increase diversity in their suppliers. The Red Book was just one of the ways we supported our suppliers in 2020, said Melanie Gunn-Nieves, Manager of Supplier Diversity. We assisted diverse suppliers in maintaining important certifications and hosted virtual business development networking events. Our Supplier Diversity program is a catalyst to achieve a more inclusive supplier base. It reflects our belief that diversity is a critical and powerful business imperative.  Become a WarnerMedia supplier WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce As hard as these times were, they gave us the time to gather the company, to be vulnerable, to have our ears open. And to be honest with each other. These were important steps towards making WarnerMedia more equitable and inclusive. And yet we all acknowledge that the bulk of the work is still in front of us. This is one of societys greatest and most urgent challenges. It is an incredible privilege to work in an industry that is so emotionally important. A well-told television series, an epic motion picture, an incredible journalistic report, or an in-depth documentary series — these things move the world given how they make us feel, how they can influence our thinking. Stories that deeply resonate can change how a person contextualizes the world. At WarnerMedia, not only do we get to work on this, but we get to work on this at scale. I believe this report is a fair summary of our work in progress. We are a missionary team of nearly 30,000 team members... inspired, passionate and, of course, with the potential to do far more. And that is a good thing given there is so much more to do. Weve put a system in place to help us create the change thats needed and there is much more to come. Jason Kilar CEO, WarnerMedia WEVE ALL BEEN AFFECTED BY THE WORLD-CHANGING EVENTS OF THE PAST YEAR WarnerMedia Equity & Inclusion Report 2020/21 Content Programs Communities Workforce Pg. 3  CNN Atlanta: Elijah Nouvelage/ Getty Images Pg. 4  Steven Universe: courtesy of Cartoon Network Pg. 5  Lovecraft Country: Eli Joshua Ade/HBO Pg. 6  We Are Who We Are: Yannis Drakoulidis/HBO Pg.7 Legendary: Barbara Nitke/HBO Max Pg. 8  Transhood: courtesy of HBO Pg. 9  WonderWoman 1984: Clay Enos/Warner Bros. Pg. 11  Christy Haubegger: Sami Drasin/WarnerMedia* Pg. 12  I May Destroy You & We Are Who We Are: courtesy of HBO; Legendary: John P. Johnson/HBO Max; Siempre, Luis: courtesy of HBO; Claudia Forestieri: Sami Drasin/WarnerMedia*; DC leadership team: John Nowak/WarnerMedia*; Birds of Prey: courtesy of Warner Bros.; Warrior: David Bloomer/Cinemax ; Robin Thede: Benjo Arwas/Contour by Getty Images Workforce Pg. 15  Rob Shepherd: courtesy of Rob Shepherd; Lisa Griffin: John Nowak/ WarnerMedia; Richard Tom: courtesy of Richard Tom; Terra Potts: courtesy of Terra Potts; Paul Perez: John Nowak/ WarnerMedia*; Sarah Aubrey: Terence Patrick/WarnerMedia; Ryan Hope: Xander Denke Pg. 19  Ira L. Black/Corbis via Getty Images Pg. 20  Jason Kilar: Michael Friberg; Michael Quigley: Ted Pio Roda/ WarnerMedia; Carmen Davenporte- McNeal: courtesy of Carmen Davenporte- McNeal; Dr. Kira Banks: Aaron Banks; John Ameachi: courtesy John Ameachi Pg. 22  MyKhanh Shelton, Samata Narra & Karen Horne: Sami Drasin/WarnerMedia*; Dennis Williams & James Anderson: John Nowak/WarnerMedia*; Asif Sadiq: courtesy of Asif Sadiq Pg. 24  Jim Cummings: Jai Lennard/WarnerMedia Pg. 25  Robin Thede: Benjo Arwas/Contour by Getty Images Pg. 26  Diana Theobald: Sami Drasin/WarnerMedia* Pg. 27  Les Frye: courtesy of Les Frye; Andy Larkin: courtesy of Andy Larkin Pg. 28  A Black Lady Sketch Show and Legendary: Ali Paige Goldstein/HBO Max; I May Destroy You: Natalie Seery/HBO; Shannon Balenciaga: Ali Paige Goldstein/HBO Max lips: Dmytro Pokulityi/iStock by Getty Images; flower: Roc Canals/Getty Images Content Pg. 32  Ann Sarnoff: Robert Voets/ Warner Bros. Pg. 33  Flight Attendant: Phil Caruso/HBO Max; In the Heights: Macall Polay/Warner Bros.; Judas and the Black Messiah: courtesy of Warner Bros.; Legendary: Zach Dilgard/HBO Max Pg. 34  Charm City Kings: William Gray/ HBO Max; The Last O.G.: courtesy of TBS; Claws: Tony Kelly/TNT; I Hate Suzie: Des Willie/Sky UK; Betty: Alison Cohen Rosa/ HBO; Insecure: Merie Weismiller Wallace/ HBO Pg. 35  Connie from Steven Universe & Marceline from Adventure Time: courtesy of Cartoon Network; Velma from Scooby Doo: courtesy of Warner Bros. Pg. 36  All imagery courtesy of CNN Pg. 37  Take it There: courtesy of Bleacher Report; Be Anti-Racist PSAs: courtesy of Cartoon Network; CNN & Sesame Street: courtesy of CNN; Why is no one looking for missing Native American teenagers: Julia Jones/CNN; Women Represented & Confronting Racism: courtesy of CNN Pg. 38  Just Mercy: courtesy of Warner Bros.; Maricon Perdido: courtesy of TNT Spain; Proyecto ser Hermano: courtesy of CNN; The Arena: Jeremy Freeman/ Turner Sports; Silence is Not an Option: courtesy of CNN; Indigenous People Want Their Land Back: Tom Herde/The Boston Globe/Getty Images; As Equals: courtesy of CNN; Invisible Stories: courtesy of HBO Asia; Um Dia Qualquer: courtesy of Canal SPACE Pg. 39  I May Destroy You: courtesy of HBO; Warrior: courtesy of HBO Max; We Are Who We Are: courtesy of HBO; Wonder Woman 1984: courtesy of Warner Bros.; Lovecraft Country: courtesy of HBO; Todxs Nós: courtesy of HBO Latin America Group Pg. 40  Aari Reich: courtesy of Aari Reich; both Starstruck images: Mark Johnson/HBO Max; Robbie Tseng: courtesy of Robbie Tseng; both Veneo images: Atresmedia/HBO Max; Oliver McGuire: Latrece Ragsdale; both Lovecraft Country images: Eli Joshua Ade/HBO Pg. 41  Courtesy of Warner Bros. Pg. 42  Judas and the Black Messiah: courtesy of Warner Bros; Toby Emmerich: Christina House/Los Angeles Times via Contour RA by Getty Images; Charles D. King & Shaka King: Glen Wilson/Warner Bros.; Niija Kuykendall: Brandon Banks Pg. 43 Birds of Prey: courtesy of Warner Bros. Pg. 44  Birds of Prey: courtesy of Warner Bros.; Flight Attendant: Phil Caruso/HBO Max Pg. 45 All Wonder Woman 1984 imagery: Clay Enos/Warner Bros. Pg. 46  Natalie Seery/ HBO Pg. 47  Courtesy of Warner Bros. Pictures Pg. 48  Pool shot: courtesy of Warner Bros. Pictures; all other In the Heights imagery on this page: Macall Polay/Warner Bros. Pg. 49  Ta-Nehisi Coates: courtesy of HBO; Courtney B. Vance, Angela Basset, Oprah Winfrey, Pauletta Washington, Mahershala Ali and Yara Shahidi: courtesy of HBO; Kamilah Forbes: Lelanie Foster/HBO Pg. 50  Courtesy of Oliver Vaccaro/TBS Pg. 51  The Mopes imagery: Oliver Vaccaro/ TBS; Oracle Code imagery: courtesy of DC Comics Pg. 52  All imagery for Autism: the Sequel & Transhood: courtesy of HBO Pg. 53  All images courtesy of Warner Bros. Pg. 54  John Nowak/WarnerMedia* Pg. 55  Daniel Cherry III, Jim Lee, and Walter Hamada: John Nowak/ WarnerMedia*; The Suicide Squad & The Batman: courtesy of Warner Bros. Pictures/  & DC Comics Pg. 56  Superman: courtesy of Warner Bros.; Nubia and Milestone: courtesy of DC Comics Pg. 57  Batwoman: courtesy of Warner Bros; Maya Mani: Colin Bentley Pg. 58  Pascal Buenning/TNT Pg. 59  Gossip Girl imagery: Gossip Girl Instagram/ HBO Max; Joey Chavez: Terence Patrick/ WarnerMedia Pg. 60  David Bloomer/ Cinemax Pg. 61  Casey Bloys: Jeremy Freeman/WarnerMedia; Kung Fu: Kailey Schwerman/Warner Bros.; Olivia Liang: courtesy of The CW; Channing Dungey: Tommy Garcia/Warner Bros. Christina M. Kim: Chris Kapa; Warrior: David Bloomer/Cinemax Pg. 62  All imagery courtesy of HBO Max Pg. 63  Courtesy of HBO Pg. 64  Courtesy of Cartoon Network Pg. 65  Ashleigh Hairston: Greg Wallace; all Craig of the Creek imagery: courtesy of Cartoon Network Pg. 66  Manny Hernandez: courtesy of Manny Hernandez; Diego Molano: Jeremy Freeman/WarnerMedia; all other imagery courtesy of Cartoon Network Pg. 67  John P. Johnson/HBO Max Pg. 68  From left — Zay: Zach Dilgard/ HBO Max; Cali: Barbara Nitke/HBO Max; Shyanne: Ali Page Goldstein/HBO Max; House of Orici & Wilma: Barbara Nitke/ HBO Max; judges quotes from Deadline and Vogue Pg. 69  Imagery courtesy of DC Comics Pg. 70  Barkley: Cliff Hawkins/ Getty Images; Mickelson, Manning & Curry: Christian Petersen/Getty Images Pg. 71  Delano Massey: Nicolette Nunez Pg. 72  Breonna Taylor: Amy Harris/AP; Sean Monterossa: Joel Angel Juarez; Deserted Communities Vaccine Access: Robyn Beck/Getty Images; The Year America Confronted Racism: Michael Reynolds/EPA; Anti-Asian Violence: Wan Chen; Trail of Tears: National Museum of African American History and Culture Pg. 73  Courtesy of Turner Entertainment Pg. 74  Gone With the Wind: courtesy of Turner Entertainment; Ben Mankiewicz: Ted Pio Roda/WarnerMedia; Jacqueline Stewart & Alicia Malone: John Nowak/ WarnerMedia; all Breakfast at Tiffanys imagery: Everett Collection Pg. 75  DC FanDome map: courtesy of DC Comics; Ann Sarnoff: Robert Voets/Warner Bros. Pg. 76  Gotham Knights: courtesy of DC Games; Wonder Woman 1984: Courtesy of Warner Bros.; Milestone: courtesy of DC Comics; Black Adam: courtesy of Warner Bros.; Nubia & You Brought Me the Ocean: courtesy of DC Comics; Pam Lifford: John Nowak/WarnerMedia* Pg. 77  Salma Hayek: Todd Williamson/ Getty Images; Nandi Bushell: ITV/ Shutterstock; Dwyane Wade: Jeremy Freeman/WarnerMedia; Lin Yu-Ling: courtesy of Lin Yu-Ling; Ava DuVernay: Anne Marie Fox/TCM Pg. 78  Ta-Nehisi Coates: Shahar Azran/Getty Images; Issa Rae: Micaiah Carter/HBO; Angela Robinson: Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP; Carly Wray: courtesy of Carly Wray; Roberto Aguirre- Sacasa: Priscilla Grant/Everett Collection; Matthew A. Cherry: Chris Pizzello/AP/ Shutterstock; Mindy Kaling: courtesy of Warner Bros.; Robert Rodríguez: Andrew H. Walker/Getty Images Programs Pg. 82  Claudia Forestieri: Sami Drasin/ WarnerMedia* Pg. 83  Gordita Chronicles creators: courtesy of Claudia Forestieri Pg. 84  Kung Fu: Kailey Schwerman/ Warner Bros.; Snowpiercer: David Bukach/TNT Pg. 85  Axel Caballero: Anna Maria Lopez/WarnerMedia* Pg. 86  Son of Monarchs: courtesy of Alexis Gambis; Rafia: BSIP SA/Alamy Stock Photo Pg. 87  Godspeed: courtesy of Celia C. Peter; The Extra-Ordinaries: courtesy of Diego Salazar Castro Pg. 88  Diana Mogollón: courtesy of Warner Bros. Pg. 89  Special: Mark Rogers/Warner Bros.; Family Style and Two Sentence Horror Stories: courtesy of Warner Bros. Pg. 90  Jackie Gagne: courtesy of Jackie Gagne Pg. 91  WarnerMedia Access Virtual Comedy Showcase: courtesy of WarnerMedia Pg. 92  Courtesy of Silvia Prietov, Luisa Velásquez & Cartoon Network LATAM Pg. 93  All imagery courtesy of Silvia Prietov, Luisa Velásquez & Cartoon Network LATAM Communities Pg. 96  Dennis Williams: John Nowak/ WarnerMedia* Pg. 97  BLM: Maddie Meyer/ Getty Images; Trans Lives: Dominic Lipinski/PA Images/Getty Images; Stop Asian Hate: Emaz/VIEWpress/Getty Images; Human Rights Campaign PSA: courtesy of WarnerMedia; AAJC PSA: courtesy of WarnerMedia; Power to the Polls PSA: courtesy of WarnerMedia; Color of Change PSA: courtesy of WarnerMedia: Pg. 98  Olivia Cheng and social posts sourced from HBOMax Instagram and WarnerMedia Instagram Pg. 99  Apollo Theater: Dia Dipasupil/ Getty Images; Ad Council vaccine PSA: courtesy of WarnerMedia; Ad Council mask-up PSA: courtesy of WarnerMedia Pg. 100  Cartoon: courtesy of Cartoon Network; Mai Phung: Brian Smith Pg. 101  WonderWorks imagery: courtesy of WonderWorks & WarnerMedia International; Rachel Ziegelmeier and child: courtesy of Rachel Ziegelmeier Pg. 103  Jason Kilar: Michael Friberg *Imagery shot exclusively for this report. Our thanks to all contributors."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Wednesday, April 06, 2022 A Tiny Audience Season Three To Debut Friday, April 22 On HBO Max . The hit music series A TINY AUDIENCE returns for a third season on FRIDAY, APRIL 22 (9-10 p.m. ET/PT) on HBO Latino and will be available to stream on HBO Max. Each episode showcases one of Latin musics icons and rising stars as they perform their biggest hits and share personal stories to a captive audience. This season, the one-of-a-kind music series presents live performances by more than 15 award- winning artists including Becky G, Jay Wheeler, Jessie Reyez, Danna Paola, Carla Morrison, Justin Quiles, Jon Secada, Zion & Lennox, Guaynaa, Mike Bahía & Friends, La India, Manuel Medrano, Ximena Sariñana, Aleks Syntek, Robin Thicke and Leslie Grace from DCs upcoming feature film Batgirl. Charismatic hosts María Elisa Ayerbe, Sarah Packiam and Daniel René will conduct interviews. Some of my all-time favorite environments to perform in have been intimate settings, said Leslie Grace . Playing for A Tiny Audience was a dream. Getting the chance to connect and share some anecdotes behind the music to an audience a few feet away reminded me of the beautiful communal experience music creates. I truly had a blast! A TINY AUDIENCE, SEASON THREE also includes a tribute episode to the inimitable Queen of Salsa, Celia Cruz, with performances by Jon Secada, Silvestre Dangond, Alejandra Guzmán, and Cimafunk. To remain up to date on A Tiny Audience and join the conversation, use the hashtag #ATinyAudienceHBO. All episodes of the series will premiere on Friday, April 22. Seasons one and two are currently available to stream on HBO Max. Episodes include: Episode 1 Becky G Mexican-American superstar Becky G reflects on her early career starting at the age of nine and performs her hits Mayores, Sin pijama and Shower along with an emotional rendition of a new, unreleased song dedicated to her grandmother. Episode 2 Jay Wheeler Rising reggaeton star Jay Wheeler enchants the tiny audience with his refreshing earnestness, his melodic compositions, and his irresistible silky voice while he performs La Curiosidad, Viendo el techno and Take My Life. Episode 3 Leslie Grace Grammy-nominated Dominican singer and breakout actress Leslie Grace performs acoustic versions of Díganle, Bachatica and Duro y Suave. Leslie shares her excitement about joining the DC Universe as Batgirl and her recent role in In The Heights. Episode 4 Zion & Lennox Puerto Rican duo Zion & Lennox bring down the house with club hits Otra Vez La Player and Estrella and reminisce about the early days of reggaeton and unpaid gigs in New York City. Episode 5 Jessie Reyez Just having opened for Lizzo and Billie Eilish, Colombian-Canadian singer-songwriter Jessie Reyez shares her dreams of retirement and enamors the audience with her emotionally-charged renditions of Figures, Sola and Mamá. Episode 6 Guaynaa Puerto Rican rapper Guaynaa lights up the stage with his witty and tongue-in-cheek reggaeton fusion, performing Cumbia a la Gente, Cerveza and Chica Ideal. Episode 7 Danna Paola Élite actress, model and singer Danna Paola receives a standing ovation after she performs the heartbreaking Dos Estraños and shares the secrets behind her fan-favorite hits Mala Fama and Mía. Episode 8 Mike Bahía & Friends 2020s Best New Artist Latin Grammy winner Mike Bahía is joined by his friends and collaborators Danny Ocean and Lenny Tavárez to perform Détente and Colorao and regales us with the moving love story behind La Rutina. Episode 9 La India Crowned by Celia Cruz herself as the Princess of Salsa, Puerto Rico-born and South Bronx-raised salsa singer La India shows off her incredible voice with Sedúceme, Nunca voy a Olvidarte and Qué Ganas De No Verte Nunca Más. Episode 10 Justin Quiles Songwriter extraordinaire and pop & reggaeton singer Justin Quiles returns to A TINY AUDIENCE after his heartfelt tribute to Juan Gabriel, to perform his new single Loco and chart-toppers Jeans and Egoísta. Episode 11 Carla Morrison Multiple Latin Grammy winner and indie singer Carla Morrison delights with her delicate and melancholic ballads Disfruto, Contigo and Una Foto and surprises audiences with her joyful and simple life outside the music industry. Episode 12 Manuel Medrano Colombian pop singer and international sensation Manuel Medrano reveals how a very special gift sidelined his early basketball career. He brings his soulful voice to the stage to perform Afuera del Planeta, Tengo Que Llegar a Tiempo and Negra. Episode 13 Ximena Sariñana Mexican actress and songwriter Ximena Sariñana showcases her extensive musical influences, from pop to R&B to mariachi ballads, with fan favorites Cobarde and Una Vez Más and her new song El Amor Más Grande. Episode 14 Aleks Syntek Three-time Latin Billboard Award winner Aleks Syntek talks about his collaboration with Mecanos Ana Torroja for the international anthem Duele el Amor. He discusses his Ariel-winning score for the record-breaking Mexican film Sexo, Pudor y Lágrimas and treats the audience to his beloved pop ballad Intocable. Episode 15 Robin Thicke Robin Thicke, Blurred Lines singer, five-time Grammy Award nominee, The Masked Singer judge, and acclaimed record producer for Michael Jackson and Marc Anthony, presents themes from his new Bossanova-inspired album and sings in Spanish for the very first time. Episode 16 Celia Cruz Tribute Jon Secada, Silvestre Dangond, Alejandra Guzmán, and Cimafunk celebrate the legendary Celia Cruz and praise her monumental music legacy by adding their personal spin to Guantanamera, The Busco, La Negra Tiene Tumbao and Pa La Paloma."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Thursday, March 10, 2022 DEATH ON THE NILE, The Mystery-Thriller Directed By And Starring Kenneth Branagh And Featuring An All-Star Ensemble Cast, To Debut March 29 On HBO Max. Coming to HBO Max 20th Century Studios daring mystery-thriller DEATH ON THE NILE , directed by and starring eight-time Academy Award nominee Kenneth Branagh and featuring an all-star ensemble cast, will debut MARCH 29, 2022 on HBO Max in the U.S., the same day as Hulu. DEATH ON THE NILE is based on the beloved 1937 novel by acclaimed author Agatha Christie. Kenneth Branagh, back as the iconic detective Hercule Poirot, is joined by Tom Bateman, four-time Oscar nominee Annette Bening, Russell Brand, Ali Fazal, Dawn French, Gal Gadot, Armie Hammer, Rose Leslie, Emma Mackey, Sophie Okonedo, Jennifer Saunders and Letitia Wright. DEATH ON THE NILE, which reunites the filmmaking team behind 2017s global hit Murder on the Orient Express, is written by Michael Green, adapted from Christies novel, and is produced by Ridley Scott, Kenneth Branagh, p.g.a., Judy Hofflund, p.g.a. and Kevin J. Walsh, with Mark Gordon, Simon Kinberg, Matthew Jenkins, James Prichard and Mathew Prichard serving as executive producers. Belgian sleuth Hercule Poirots Egyptian vacation aboard a glamorous river steamer turns into a terrifying search for a murderer when a picture-perfect couples idyllic honeymoon is tragically cut short. Set against an epic landscape of sweeping desert vistas and the majestic Giza pyramids, this dramatic tale of love gone wrong features a cosmopolitan group of impeccably dressed travelers and enough wicked twists and turns to leave audiences guessing until the final, shocking denouement. Filmed with 65mm Panavision cameras in late 2019, DEATH ON THE NILE transports audiences to the 1930s, recreating many of the locations that served as inspiration for Christies glamorous, high society thriller."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Wednesday, March 09, 2022 Degrassi, Whatever It Takes.. HBO MAX New Trailer Available HERE Degrassi: The Next Generation is enrolling on HBO Max this month, reigniting the riveting drama that took place within the halls of Degrassi Community School. Reunite with Emma, Jimmy, Paige, Manny, JT and all your favorite characters along their poignant journey to adulthood, reliving the iconic storylines that solidified the series as the most popular and longest-running installment of the Degrassi franchise. All 14 seasons begin streaming on the platform Friday, Mar. 25 and will be followed by an all-new Degrassi series from WarnerMedia Kids & Family and WildBrain in 2023. More about Degrassi: The Next Generation Degrassi: The Next Generation is a pull-no-punches dramatic take on the real-life issues of high school life, telling the stories of students experiencing issues as far-reaching as homophobia and abuse, to violence and burgeoning sexuality, to dating and heartbreak. With equal measures of humor, angst, and heart, the students of Degrassi: The Next Generation struggle with a series of firsts as they begin their journey into adulthood. More about Degrassis 40-year legacy For over four decades, watching Degrassi has been a rite of passage for teenagers everywhere, providing a mirror into their passions, struggles and triumphs as they navigate the road to selfhood. Always at the vanguard of inspiration, education and entertainment, Degrassi is one of the most iconic brands in youth culture, unafraid to tackle even the most challenging stories. No issue has been too controversial or too real for Degrassi to explore, often breaking new ground on such subjects as teen pregnancy, racism, AIDS, eating disorders, child abuse, learning disabilities, gender identity, violence and more. Owned by WildBrain, Degrassi was originally created by Linda Schuyler and Kit Hood in 1979 and has become a Canadian institution celebrated worldwide and recognized with dozens of awards across its six series, over 500 episodes and four TV movies, including two International Emmy Awards, two Teen Choice Awards and a Peabody. WildBrains newest series for the brand, titled Degrassi, is set to launch in the US with 10 one-hour episodes on HBO Max in 2023."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Wednesday, April 20, 2022 ENTRE NOS: CARMEN AND ALFRED To Debut Friday, May 6, On HBO Max. HBO . HBO MAX Entre Nos The latest installment of HBOs hit comedy series Entre Nos will debut FRIDAY, MAY 6 (10:00-10:30 p.m. ET/PT), on HBO Latino and will stream on HBO Max. Tune in to ENTRE NOS: CARMEN AND ALFRED to watch LA-based comedians Carmen Morales and Alfred Robles offer their peculiar advice on Latinidad, family and relationships. Get ready for the most uproarious history lesson ever, outlandish ideas for your next funeral and questionable dating tips. With ENTRE NOS: CARMEN AND ALFRED, we welcome Morales and Robles to the Entre Nos comedy family as two of the most exciting up-and-coming artists of today. Performed in front of a live audience in New Yorks Chelsea Music Hall, HBOs stand-up series Entre Nos will entice audiences to come back for more. HBOs beloved Entre Nos series features performers such as Ian Lara, Gina Brillon, Chris Estrada and Shayla Rivera. It includes The Winners 2 (2021), What She Said (2021), LA Meets NY (2020), The Winners (2020), About Last Night (2019), Spot On (2019), The Series (2018), Part 4 (2018), Part 3 (2018), Part 2 (2017) and Part 1 (2017). Also streaming on HBO and HBO Max are the seven standalones Entre Nos Presents comedy specials: Frankie Quiñones: Superhomies (2021), Nick Guerra: Love Me at My Worst (2020), Shayla Rivera: Its Not Rocket Science (2020), Jerry Garcia: Its Not My Weekend (2019), Gina Brillon: Easily Offended (2019), Erik Rivera: Super White (2019) and Orlando Leyba: Adorable (2018). CARMEN MORALES Carmen Morales captivating style incorporates opinionated quick wit and outlandish ideals and perfectly combines her assertiveness, likeability and vulnerability. International audiences adore her stand-up. Carmen performs stand-up on HBO, Showtime, IFC, Freeform and Hulu. She tours around the country performing at clubs, theaters, colleges, military bases and regularly at The World Famous Comedy Store in Los Angeles, CA. Carmen loves to perform at festivals and has headlined the San Diego Comedy Festival, Altercation Comedy Festival and the Scruffy City Comedy Festival. Shes been heard on Netflix is a Joke on Sirius XM radio, on The Church of Whats Happening Now with Joey Diaz, Getting Doug with High and on her own hit podcast, No Sir I Dont Like it. ALFRED ROBLES After getting kicked out of the police academy, Alfred Robles rose to become one of the hottest young comedians in the country. Two years into his comedy career, Alfred was featured in the hit show Loco Comedy Jam and the Latino Laugh Festival. The only comedian on all three seasons of Stand Up Revolution on Comedy Central, he is now on a worldwide tour with Gabriel Iglesias."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Monday, March 07, 2022 Four Part HBO Max Limited Series DMZ, From Roberto Patino, Ava DuVernay, Array Filmworks, And Warner Bros. Television, Debuts March 17. HBO MAX DMZ Max Original DMZ debuts THURSDAY, MARCH 17 with all four episodes of the limited series based on the DC graphic novel of the same name. Logline: DMZ leaps off the pages of the DC acclaimed graphic novel into the visual landscape of a dangerous and distorted Manhattan as one woman navigates a demilitarized zone in a harrowing quest to find her lost son. Cast: Stars Rosario Dawson, Benjamin Bratt, Hoon Lee, Freddy Miyares, Jordan Preston Carter, Venus Ariel Guest Cast: Rutina Wesley, Nora Dunn, Jade Wu, Rey Gallegos, Mamie Gummer, Agam Darshi, Juani Feliz, Henry G. Sanders Credits: Emmy nominee Roberto Patino, Emmy winner/Oscar nominee Ava DuVernay, and ARRAY Filmworks Paul Garnes are executive producers of DMZ, which was created for television by Roberto Patino, based on the comic book series published by DC written by Brian Wood and illustrated by Riccardo Burchielli. Patino serves as showrunner and wrote the first episode, which was directed by DuVernay. Acclaimed filmmaker Ernest Dickerson directs and executive produces three episodes. Emmy winner Carly Wray is co-executive producer. DMZ is produced by DuVernays ARRAY Filmworks in association with Warner Bros. Television."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Tuesday, March 01, 2022 HBO Max Acquires THE BEAUTY OF BLACKNESS, A Documentary Film Chronicling the Evolution of Black Beauty Through The Rise, Fall and Rebirth of Iconic Cosmetics Brand Fashion Fair. HBO MAX HBO Max has acquired THE BEAUTY OF BLACKNESS, a documentary film directed by Tiffany Johnson and Kiana Moore. The film is available to stream now on HBO Max. THE BEAUTY OF BLACKNESS chronicles Fashion Fair, the first cosmetics brand created exclusively for Black women created in 1973 by Eunice Johnson, the co-founder of Ebony and Jet Magazines. The film examines Fashion Fairs rapid rise to icon status and how the brand surpassed cultural obstacles to overcome beauty standards that previously excluded people of color. Despite revolutionizing the beauty industry and becoming a household name for every Black and Brown woman in the 1970s, the brand faced a rocky media landscape and encountered challenges due to emerging competitors. The documentary follows the brands journey to present day where, amidst an evolving industry with a new focus on inclusivity, Fashion Fair Cosmetics has been revived under the helm of two entrepreneurs, Desiree Rogers and Cheryl Mayberry McKissack. THE BEAUTY OF BLACKNESS features interviews with renowned experts, models, makeup artists, performers, and other prominent figures who have witnessed firsthand the evolution of the category and who are celebrating and continuing to redefine beauty standards for people of color. The film was created in partnership with Vox Media, the story hunters at Epic, Sephora, Ventureland – working with its media and content partner, Digitas – and was co-directed by Tiffany Johnson (Black Monday, Dear White People and Twenties), and first-time director, Kiana Moore, VP of Content Production and Head of Vox Medias Epic Digital. THE BEAUTY OF BLACKNESS will be featured as part of the Black Voices and Womens History Month curated programming on HBO Max."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Wednesday, March 02, 2022 HBO Max And WarnerMedia OneFifty Partner With Six Film Festivals From Across The Nation To Launch The Revamped Latino Short Film Competition. HBO MAX HBO Max and WarnerMedia OneFifty , in partnership with six film festivals from across the U.S., announced the expansion of their annual Latino Short Film Competition, with submissions opening in March 2022. The restructuring of the new Latino Short Film Competition presented by HBO Max will allow the streamer to tap into the vast networks of each of the six participating film festivals and continue to elevate diverse Latino voices. This year, the competition will seek films that explore the theme of Community from the unique perspective of a Latino American cinematic storyteller. The search will span across the top film festivals in the nation including New York, Los Angeles, Georgia, Philadelphia, Houston, and Miami. Candidates interested in participating in the competition can enter via any of the six festivals listed below. The competition will culminate with seven winning films, which HBO Max and WarnerMedia OneFifty will license to premiere on the platform at a later date. Participating film festivals include: Georgia Latino Film Festival Houston Latino Film Festival Los Angeles Latino International Film Festival (LALIFF) Miami Film Festival New York Latino Film Festival (NYLFF) Philadelphia Latino Film Festival See Official Rules for complete details at hbomaxlatinoshortfilm.dja.com . The competition is open to Latino/a/x filmmakers (writers, directors or producers) who are legal residents of the 50 U.S./DC or PR 18+ (19+ in AL & NE, 21+ in MS). Submission ends at 11:59 p.m. PT on 5/2/2022. As leaders in the media and entertainment space, HBO Max Palante! and WarnerMedia OneFifty seek to amplify the reach and visibility of the competition to ensure that Latino filmmakers continue to have a platform where their voices and stories are being heard, including stories by Latinos that reflect everyones experiences, not just Latino experiences. This competition will solidify the streaming platforms commitment to support creatives in the community and bring awareness to their work. Were thrilled to be announcing the revamp of our Latino short film competition that goes hand in hand with the one year anniversary of Palante!, said Jessica Vargas , Director, Multicultural Marketing at HBO Max and HBO . We hope this competition inspires and empowers Latinos far and wide in the entertainment industry while elevating their stories. It gives us great pleasure to be able to expand our original programming with seven new amazing films created by outstanding individuals being honored at Latino film festivals all over the country, added Joey Chavez, Executive Vice President of Drama at HBO Max and HBO. Previous winners of the HBO Latino Short Film Competition films including: Slipping Into Darkness, La Serenata, Pepito, 1,2,3 All Eyes On Me, Rizo, and Princess Cut, are currently available to stream on HBO Max. Crabs in a Barrel, Mi Casa and When You Clean a Strangers Home, will be available to stream on HBO Max on April 8th. About HBO Max Palante! HBO Max Palante! is a social-first audience initiative breaking down barriers for new voices and driving awareness to culturally relevant programming across HBO Max for Latinx audiences. Founded on the vision of empowerment, resilience, and hope, Palante! (Forward) is a celebration of the ambicultural movement that elevates Latinx stories and voices from across HBO Max. About WarnerMedia OneFifty WarnerMedia OneFifty represents the natural complement to the industry-leading work of WarnerMedia and its brands HBO, HBO Max, Warner Bros., TNT, TBS, truTV, CNN, DC Entertainment, Cartoon Network, Adult Swim, Turner Classic Movies, and others. Inspired by the nearly 100-year tradition of innovation at our company, WarnerMedia OneFifty serves as the content elevation hub for WarnerMedia, and as an artist studio where content innovation happens, seeking to amplify the best, most compelling untold and artist-forward stories to audiences. https:;onefifty.com/"
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Wednesday, April 20, 2022 HBO Max joins Verizons +play. HBO MAX Verizon today announced that HBO Max is the latest streaming provider to join as a partner in +play, Verizons innovative new platform that will allow users to discover, purchase and manage some of their favorite subscriptions – all in one place. We are thrilled to have HBO Max join as the latest streaming partner to +play, said Erin McPherson, chief content officer for Verizon Consumer Group. As one of the largest direct-to-consumer distributors in the United States, we have a track record of providing millions of our customers with great premium content from leading services, and our partnership with HBO Max will build on that trend while speaking directly to customer pain points, like managing multiple subscriptions all in one place. Stay tuned for even more customer-centric innovation in the streaming space with partners like HBO Max on +play. As more and more streaming and content platforms come to market, customers are increasingly challenged to manage and track what theyre signed up for and navigate the landscape. +play is the answer: a simple way to centralize subscriptions across any and all devices – and a more effective way for customers to discover new content and deals for services. +play, announced at Verizons Investor Day last month, will allow Verizon customers to centralize their many subscriptions across entertainment, audio, gaming, fitness, music, lifestyle and more. The platform will also allow users to learn more about exclusive deals and offerings for content services. The cutting-edge hub will give Verizon customers access to the best content and experiences built on the best network – all while strengthening Verizons strategy of providing customers with choice: choice connectivity, choice of device and now, choice of content and digital services – all managed in one place. The platform is currently in early trials and will be available to Verizon customers at no additional cost later this year. HBO Max is a one-of-a-kind streaming service from Warner Bros. Discovery that delivers unique stories, complex characters, immersive new worlds and innovative entertainment across every genre. With a personalized user experience that consistently surfaces fresh, distinctive, talk-worthy programming from HBO, Warner Bros., and DC, as well as Max Originals, blockbuster films, and beloved kids and family content, HBO Max delivers the greatest array of series, movies and specials for audiences of all ages to love. The platform is home to an array of fan-favorite, Emmy Award-winning original series, including Succession, Mare of Easttown, and Euphoria, as well as Hacks and The Flight Attendant, which both return for their second seasons in the coming weeks. With HBO Max, we aspire to deliver high-quality entertainment to audiences however and wherever they want to watch it, and this partnership with Verizon to feature HBO Max as a partner for its +play offering is a great, simplified way to do just that, said Jennifer Mirgorod, head of partner management and partner marketing for HBO Max. Were excited for the launch and for Verizon customers to easily access their HBO Max subscription and dive into their favorite content. +play builds on the content Verizon already offers through leading providers including Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+, discovery+ and AMC+, all of which are featured in the new service, and introduces new partners, including Netflix, Peloton, veeps by Live Nation concert live streams, WW, A+E Networks (Lifetime Movie Club, HISTORY Vault, and A&E Crime Central), The Athletic, Calm, Duolingo, and TelevisaUnivisions Vix+, among many others with more to come. Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ) was formed on June 30, 2000 and is one of the worlds leading providers of technology and communications services. Headquartered in New York City and with a presence around the world, Verizon generated revenues of $133.6 billion in 2021. The company offers data, video and voice services and solutions on its award-winning networks and platforms, delivering on customers demand for mobility, reliable network connectivity, security and control."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Tuesday, March 08, 2022 HBO Max: Now Streaming in 61 Territories Worldwide. HBO MAX The global rollout of WarnerMedias streaming platform continued today with the launch of HBO Max in 15 additional European countries, including the Netherlands, Portugal, Hungary, Poland, and Romania HBO Max is now available in 61 territories across Europe, the U.S., Latin America and the Caribbean Later this year HBO Max will expand to a further six countries – Turkey, Greece, Iceland, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania Amsterdam, March 8th, 2022 – HBO Max, the premium streaming platform from WarnerMedia, is now available in 61 territories globally after launching in 15 additional European countries today, including the Netherlands, Portugal, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. The platform launches with attractive pricing and a promotion offering all customers in Central and Eastern Europe and Portugal more than 30% off the monthly price for the lifetime of their subscription. In the Netherlands, HBO Max launches with two tiers, both at 50% off the regular monthly subscription price for the life of the subscription. A monthly subscription to the standard tier (with HD 1080p, 4K, three concurrent streams, 30 downloads) is just €3.99 and a monthly subscription to the basic tier (with HD 720p, one concurrent stream, five downloads) is just €2.99. From today, HBO Max is streaming in 21 European countries with Central and Eastern Europe, Portugal and the Netherlands joining the Nordics, Spain and Andorra where we launched the platform last year, said Christina Sulebakk, General Manager, HBO Max EMEA. Central and Eastern Europe is where it all began for our European business back in 1991 with our first linear channels and were pleased that today, more than 30 years later, were bringing fans in the region a completely new way to access all their favorite entertainment. The 15 countries where HBO Max launched today are: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, North Macedonia, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, and Slovenia. In under 24 months we have built a scalable streaming business present in 61 territories and counting. International is going to continue be an important part of our global growth story going forward said Johannes Larcher, Head of HBO Max International. I am particularly proud that our presence in Central and Eastern Europe is further strengthened by todays launch of HBO Max, and that we are doubling down on our strong commitment to fans, partners and employees across the region during this challenging time. HBO Max launched in the U.S. in May 2020 and is rapidly rolling out globally. In June 2021, it became available in 39 territories in Latin America and the Caribbean and in October 2021 it arrived in Europe, launching in the Nordics, Spain, and Andorra. HBO Max continues its global expansion later this year, with launches set for Turkey, Greece, Iceland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. There are also plans for further expansion to Southeast Asia. About HBO Max HBO Max is WarnerMedias direct-to-consumer streaming platform, offering best in class quality entertainment. HBO Max features the greatest array of storytelling for all audiences from the iconic brands of HBO, Warner Bros., DC, Cartoon Network, Adult Swim, Turner Classic Movies and more. The platform launched in the United States in May 2020 and introduced a lower priced, advertising- supported tier in June 2021. HBO Max began its global rollout launching in markets across Latin America and the Caribbean last summer, followed by its first European launches in the Nordics and Spain. Currently available in 61 territories, there are plans for continued expansion of HBO Max in 2022. About WarnerMedia WarnerMedia is a leading media and entertainment company that creates and distributes premium and popular content from a diverse array of talented storytellers and journalists to global audiences through its consumer brands including: HBO, HBO Max, Warner Bros., TNT, TBS, truTV, CNN, DC, New Line, Cartoon Network, Adult Swim, Turner Classic Movies and others. WarnerMedia is part of AT&T Inc. (NYSE: T)."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Thursday, April 14, 2022 HBO Max Orders DEAD BOY DETECTIVES To Series. HBO MAX HBO Max has ordered the Max Original DC drama DEAD BOY DETECTIVES to series. From Emmy nominee Steve Yockey (The Flight Attendant), Doom Patrols Jeremy Carver, Berlanti Productions, and Warner Bros. Television, DEAD BOY DETECTIVES is an eight-episode horror detective series born from DCs The Sandman and Dead Boy Detectives comics. Its a fresh take on a ghost story that explores loss, grief, and death through the lens of Edwin Payne and Charles Rowland, two dead British teenagers, and their very alive friend, Crystal Palace. So, its a lot like a vintage detective series — only darker and on acid. Steve Yockey (The Flight Attendant, Supernatural, Doom Patrol) wrote the pilot episode of DEAD BOY DETECTIVES and serves as showrunner. Yockey, Jeremy Carver (Doom Patrol, Supernatural), Greg Berlanti (You, The Flash), and Sarah Schechter (The Flight Attendant, You) are executive producers on the series. Lee Toland Krieger (Superman & Lois upcoming Green Lantern) directed the pilot episode and also served as an executive producer on the pilot alongside David Madden (Superman & Lois). Based on characters created for DC by Neil Gaiman and Matt Wagner, the series is produced by Berlanti Productions in association with Warner Bros. Television. Yockey, Carver, Berlanti Productions, and Krieger are all under overall deals with WBTV. George Rexstrew and Jayden Revri (The Lodge) star as Dead Boy Detectives Edwin Payne (Rexstrew) and Charles Rowland (Revri), and Kassius Nelson (Last Night in Soho, Hollyoaks) stars as Crystal Palace. Additional series stars include Briana Cuoco (The Flight Attendant, Harley Quinn) as Jenny the Butcher, Ruth Connell (Supernatural) as the Night Nurse (reprising her role from the Dead Patrol episode of Doom Patrol), Yuyu Kitamura (The Expatriates) as Niko, and Jenn Lyon (Claws, Justified) as Esther. Sarah Aubrey, Head of Original Content, HBO Max quote: We are excited to be expanding further into the DC Universe with Steve, Jeremy and the Berlanti team with this thrilling new spin on a detective series. We were fascinated by the world of the Dead Boy Detectives that Steve and Jeremy first introduced in Doom Patrol, and cannot wait to follow the supernatural sleuths in the lurid mysteries to come. Steve Yockey quote: Ive been obsessed with this comic for a long time, so its a true passion project. And Jeremy, Berlanti Productions, DC, WBTV, HBO Max — theyre all encouraging me to run with every wild, bizarre, and unsettling choice. The result is going to be really dark fun. Yockey is executive producer and showrunner of HBO Max/WBTVs hit one-hour darkly comedic thriller The Flight Attendant (from star Kaley Cuocos Yes, Norman Productions and Berlanti Productions), which returns for season two on April 21. He developed the series, which received nine Emmy nominations in its first season, with Yockey nominated for Outstanding Comedy Series as well as Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series. He was previously a writer and co-executive producer of WBTVs Supernatural for The CW. Additional TV writing credits include MTVs Scream: The Series and Awkward, and HBOs The Brink. He also co-wrote (with Carver) the Dead Patrol episode of HBO Max/WBTVs Doom Patrol."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Wednesday, March 09, 2022 HBO Max Orders Limited Drama Series THE PENGUIN (WT), Starring Colin Farrell. HBO MAX Coming to HBO Max HBO Max has given a straight-to-series order to THE PENGUIN (working title), a limited series starring Colin Farrell in the title role. The DC drama expands upon the world filmmaker Matt Reeves has created for Warner Bros. Pictures global blockbuster The Batman and centers on the character played by Farrell in the film. The series is executive produced by Matt Reeves, Dylan Clark, Colin Farrell, and Lauren LeFranc, who writes and serves as showrunner. Based on characters created for DC by Bob Kane with Bill Finger, THE PENGUIN is produced by Reeves 6th & Idaho Productions and Dylan Clark Productions in association with Warner Bros. Television, where Reeves and 6th & Idaho are under an overall deal. 6th & Idahos Daniel Pipski and Adam Kassan also serve as executive producers, and Rafi Crohn is co-executive producer. Sarah Aubrey, Head of Original Content, HBO Max quote: We are thrilled to bring audiences a new version of this iconic DC character that they have never seen before. It is incredible to be working with Matt, Dylan and Lauren on continuing this story and to see Colin take his already exceptional performance in The Batman to the next level. Matt Reeves quote: Colin exploded off the screen as the Penguin in The Batman, and having the chance to thoroughly explore the inner life of that character on HBO Max is an absolute thrill. Dylan and I are so excited to work with Lauren in continuing Ozs story as he grabs violently for power in Gotham. Lauren LeFranc quote: I have long been a fan of the world of The Batman, and Matts film is such a powerful and bold entry into the canon. I am excited and humbled to continue telling stories in the grimy world of Gotham City - and what better excuse to channel my inner villain than to tell the story of Oswald Cobblepot? I am thrilled to work with Colin, Matt, Dylan, 6th & Idaho, Warners, and HBO Max as we work to bring this story to the screen. Colin Farrell quote: The world that Matt Reeves created for The Batman is one that warrants a deeper gaze through the eyes of Oswald Cobblepot. I couldnt be more excited about continuing this exploration of Oz as he rises through the darkened ranks to become The Penguin. Will be good to get him back on the streets of Gotham for a little madness and a little mayhem. Released in theaters in North America on March 4, 2022, and internationally beginning March 2, 2022, The Batman grossed $134 million at the North American box office and $124 million internationally in its first weekend for a $258 million global launch. The critically acclaimed film, starring Robert Pattinson, is certified fresh at 86% on Rotten Tomatoes from more than 390 reviews."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Tuesday, March 22, 2022 HBO Max Renews Original Series AND JUST LIKE THAT... From Executive Producer Michael Patrick King For A Second Season. HBO MAX And Just Like That... HBO Max announced today that AND JUST LIKE THAT... has been renewed for a second season. The series, from executive producer Michael Patrick King, alongside stars and executive producers Sarah Jessica Parker, Cynthia Nixon and Kristin Davis, delivered the strongest debut of any Max Original series to date. Logline: The Max Original AND JUST LIKE THAT..., the new chapter of the groundbreaking HBO series Sex and the City, from executive producer Michael Patrick King, follows Carrie (Sarah Jessica Parker), Miranda (Cynthia Nixon) and Charlotte (Kristin Davis) as they navigate the journey from the complicated reality of life and friendship in their 30s to the even more complicated reality of life and friendship in their 50s. Season 1 cast : Sarah Jessica Parker, Cynthia Nixon, Kristin Davis, Sara Ramírez, Sarita Choudhury, Nicole Ari Parker, Karen Pittman, Chris Noth, Mario Cantone, David Eigenberg, Willie Garson, and Evan Handler.  USA Today praised AND JUST LIKE THAT... as sharp and vibrant, while IndieWire hailed it a whirlwind of haute couture, budding romance and fervent friendship and The Chicago Sun Times highlighted its excellent performances. Michael Patrick King, executive producer, quote : I am delighted and excited to tell more stories about these vibrant, bold characters - played by these powerful, amazing actors. The fact is, were all thrilled. And Just like That... our Sex life is back. Sarah Aubrey, Head of Original Content, HBO Max quote : We have been delighted by the cultural conversation generated by these characters and their stories, set in a world we already know and love so much. We are proud of the work Michael Patrick King and our wonderful writers, producers, cast and crew have done to bring these stories to the screen. We cant wait for fans to see whats in store for season 2! Season 1 Credits: Executive producers Sarah Jessica Parker, Kristin Davis, Cynthia Nixon, Julie Rottenberg, Elisa Zuritsky, John Melfi and Michael Patrick King. Writers included King, Samantha Irby, Rachna Fruchbom, Keli Goff, Julie Rottenberg and Elisa Zuritsky. Directors included King, Gillian Robespierre, Cynthia Nixon, Anu Valia and Nisha Ganatra. The HBO series Sex and the City was created by Darren Star and based on the book Sex and the City by Candace Bushnell."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Friday, March 18, 2022 Laurie Metcalf, Martha Kelly, Ming-Na Wen And Margaret Cho Join Season Two Of HACKS. HBO MAX Hacks The Emmy-winning and critically-acclaimed Max Original comedy series HACKS has added Laurie Metcalf, Martha Kelly and Ming-Na Wen as recurring guest stars and Margaret Cho as a guest star for the highly anticipated second season. Logline: The dark mentorship between legendary Las Vegas comedian Deborah Vance (Jean Smart) and her young, entitled writer Ava (Hannah Einbinder) continues to evolve as the two travel across the country workshopping Deborahs new stand-up act. Newly Announced Recurring Guest Stars : Laurie Metcalf (Lady Bird, The Conners). Metcalf is represented by Scott Henderson at WME. Martha Kelly (Euphoria, Marriage Story, Baskets). Kelly is represented by Brillstein Entertainment Partners, UTA and Morris Yorn. Ming-Na Wen (The Book of Boba Fett, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., Mulan). Wen is represented by Link Entertainment and Innovative Artists. Newly Announced Guest Star : Margaret Cho (The Flight Attendant, Fire Island, Good on Paper). Cho is represented by Sarah J. Martin, Scott Henderson at WME, Heidy Vaquerano at Fox Rothschild LLP and Ken Phillips Publicity Group, Inc. Returning Cast : Jean Smart, an Emmy winner for her performance in season one of the series, is set to return with Hannah Einbinder, Carl Clemons-Hopkins and Jane Adams, who were all nominated for Emmys for season one. Christopher McDonald, Kaitlin Olson, Paul W. Downs, Poppy Liu, Rose Abdoo, Mark Indelicato, Meg Stalter, Angela E. Gibbs, Luenell, Johnny Sibilly, Joe Mande, Ally Maki and Lorenza Izzo also star. Season 2 Credits : HACKS is created and showrun by Emmy winners Paul W. Downs, Lucia Aniello and Jen Statsky. It is executive produced by Downs and Aniello via their Paulilu banner, Statsky via First Thought Productions, as well as Emmy winners Michael Schur via Fremulon, David Miner for 3 Arts Entertainment and Morgan Sackett. The studio is Universal Television, a division of Universal Studio Group."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Monday, April 11, 2022 Max Original Comedy Special MARLON WAYANS PRESENTS: THE HEADLINERS Debuts April 21. HBO MAX Marlon Wayans Presents: The Headliners The Max Original stand-up comedy special, MARLON WAYANS PRESENTS: THE HEADLINERS, debuts THURSDAY, APRIL 21 on HBO Max. Five up-and-coming comics join comedy legend Marlon Wayans for an hour of no-holds-barred stand-up. Taped live at the Belasco Theatre in Los Angeles, this hour-long special feature the comedic stylings of multi-hyphenate legend Marlon Wayans and five up-and-coming stand-ups. Serving as emcee, Wayans shines the spotlight on actor D.C. Ervin, social media star Tony Baker, niece and stand-up comic Chaunté Wayans, writer Sydney Castillo, and noted closer Esau McGraw. With everyone decked out in their Sunday best, MARLON WAYANS PRESENTS: THE HEADLINERS centers on the comedians frank takes on fatherhood, fear, dating, disappointment, adult orthodonture, and so much more. Directed by Troy Miller, MARLON WAYANS PRESENTS: THE HEADLINERS is executive produced by Marlon Wayans, Rick Alvarez, Troy Miller, Steve Harris and Michael Rotenberg. MARLON WAYANS PRESENTS: THE HEADLINERS is Wayans second comedy special for HBO Max following the 2021 release of Marlon Wayans: You Know What It Is."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Thursday, April 21, 2022 Max Original Documentary MENUDO: FOREVER YOUNG Debuts June 23. HBO MAX The four-part Max Original documentary MENUDO: FOREVER YOUNG, from filmmakers Ángel Manuel Soto (Max Original Charm City Kings) and Kristofer Ríos (Havana Skate Days), debuts with all episodes on THURSDAY, JUNE 23 on HBO Max. The documentary will have its world premiere at the 2022 Tribeca Festival on June 11 in New York. Logline: MENUDO: FOREVER YOUNG chronicles the rise and fall of the most iconic Latin American boy band in history, bringing viewers into the world of the popular teen idols global tours, magazine covers, 80s outfits, and screaming fangirls. But the four-part documentary reveals that behind the glitz and glamour was a web of abuse and exploitation at the hands of the bands manager, Edgardo Diaz. Through revealing interviews with former Menudo members, the film examines how this extravagant facade was disguising serious wrongdoings by Diaz. Á ngel Manuel Soto quote: The Puerto Rican diaspora in New York played a critical role in the success of Menudo and its crossover in the US, shutting down traffic for blocks surrounding the bands hotel and selling out Madison Square Garden on multiple occasions. We couldnt be more excited to premiere this series in their backyard at TriBeCa and honor their contribution to the bands legacy. Credits: Executive producers are Cristina Costantini and Jeff Plunkett of Muck Media, Alex Fumero of Trojan Horse, Bryn Mooser and Justin Lacob of XTR, and Ángel Manuel Soto; co- executive producers are Maura Anderson and Kristofer Ríos. Directors are Ángel Manuel Soto (E1-E4) and Kristofer Ríos (E3, E4)."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Thursday, April 07, 2022 Max Original Documentary NOT SO PRETTY, Directed By Oscar-Nominated Filmmakers Kirby Dick And Amy Ziering, Debuts April 14. HBO MAX Not So Pretty The four-part Max Original documentary NOT SO PRETTY, from Academy Award nominated filmmakers Kirby Dick & Amy Ziering, debuts THURSDAY, APRIL 14. Logline: Narrated by Keke Palmer, NOT SO PRETTY is the first-ever comprehensive large-scale investigative expose of the trillion-dollar cosmetics, beauty and personal care industry. Celebrated and groundbreaking filmmakers Kirby Dick and Amy Ziering (Allen v. Farrow, On The Record, The Hunting Ground) take this unregulated industry to task via rigorous investigations, incisive wit and emotional storytelling to inform audiences of the hidden hazards of cosmetics and safe, budget-friendly alternatives for their daily products. Kirby Dick and Amy Ziering quote: We are thrilled to be partnering with innovative and bold HBO Max and the brilliantly talented Keke Palmer to bring viewers this riveting four-part series exposing the hidden secrets and ugly truths behind the trillion-dollar beauty and personal care industry that will literally have viewers running to take a second look at all the personal care products lining their bathroom shelves! Working on this project has certainly changed our own purchasing habits and perspectives, and we are excited to empower viewers similarly by providing them with essential information they need to know and simply cannot get anywhere else. With Kekes wit and curiosity serving as our engaging guide, our series provides viewers with shocking insights, startling revelations, and important knowledge that will help them not just look their best on the outside but also feel their best on the inside — a win-win for not only our personal health, but the health of the planet as well. Keke Palmer quote: Im big on self help and in order to best help yourself, you need information. I cant tell you how much I learned from working on Not So Pretty. Each session inspired an OMG I HAD NO IDEA moment and then I became relieved to be a part of something that can help break these myths and encourage personal autonomy within the beauty industry which can only come with knowledge. You cant choose wisely when you dont know what to look for! This show will illuminate that and its really empowering. Credits: Kirby Dick and Amy Ziering are executive producers and directors. Tara Long executive produces for eOne."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Tuesday, March 15, 2022 Max Original Documentary Series ONE PERFECT SHOT, Created For Television By Ava DuVernay, Debuts March 24. HBO MAX One Perfect Shot Max Original half-hour documentary series ONE PERFECT SHOT , celebrating impactful movie moments guided by Hollywoods most exhilarating cinematic voices, debuts THURSDAY, MARCH 24 with all six episodes on HBO Max. Logline : Created for television by Oscar nominee and Emmy winner Ava DuVernay and inspired by a popular Twitter account of the same name, each episode of ONE PERFECT SHOT arms one acclaimed director with an arsenal of visual tools to pull back the curtain on their most iconic shots. Directors enter each shot, walking through the scene in 360 degree moments that allow viewers to join an immersive exploration of moviemaking. Filmmakers share their obstacles, challenges, lessons and triumphs as they detail the road to their one perfect shot. The series will feature prolific filmmakers Patty Jenkins, Aaron Sorkin, Kasi Lemmons, Jon M. Chu, Malcolm D. Lee and Michael Mann, as well as blockbuster films including Wonder Woman, The Trial of the Chicago 7, Harriet, Crazy Rich Asians, Girls Trip and Heat. Credits: ONE PERFECT SHOT is produced by Warner Bros. Unscripted Television in association with Warner Horizon, ARRAY Filmworks and One Perfect Shot. The series is executive produced by Ava DuVernay, Paul Garnes, Bruce Robertson, Neil Miller and Sonia Slutsky."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Tuesday, March 29, 2022 Max Original Limited Series THE STAIRCASE Debuts May 5. HBO MAX The Staircase The eight-episode Max Original limited series, THE STAIRCASE , created by Antonio Campos (The Devil All the Time) and starring Colin Firth and Toni Collette, debuts THURSDAY, MAY 5 with three episodes, followed by one new episode each week through June 9. Logline: Based on a true story, THE STAIRCASE explores the life of Michael Peterson (Firth), his sprawling North Carolina family, and the suspicious death of his wife, Kathleen Peterson (Collette). Cast : Starring alongside Colin Firth and Toni Collette are Michael Stuhlbarg, Juliette Binoche, Dane DeHaan, Olivia DeJonge, Rosemarie DeWitt, Tim Guinee, Patrick Schwarzenegger, Sophie Turner, Vincent Vermignon, Odessa Young and Parker Posey. Credits : Created by Antonio Campos, THE STAIRCASE is co-produced by Annapurna Television. Written and executive produced by Antonio Campos and Maggie Cohn, who also serve as showrunners. Campos directed six episodes and Leigh Janiak directed two episodes."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Wednesday, April 13, 2022 Max Original MADE FOR LOVE Returns For Its Second Season April 28. HBO MAX Made For Love Season Two of the acclaimed Max Original series MADE FOR LOVE returns with two new episodes THURSDAY, APRIL 28. Two episodes will debut each week on subsequent Thursdays, with the final two installments of the eight-episode season debuting May 19. Synopsis: Based on the novel by Alissa Nutting, MADE FOR LOVE is a poignantly humorous story of modern love and divorce. Season One followed Hazel Green (Cristin Milioti), a thirty- something woman on the run after ten years in a suffocating marriage to tech billionaire Byron Gogol (Billy Magnussen), as smart as he is insufferable. After discovering that her husband implanted a monitoring device – the Made for Love chip – in her brain, allowing him to track her, watch her and know her emotional data, Hazel fled to her desert hometown to take refuge with her outcast father Herbert (Ray Romano) and his synthetic partner, Diane. In the second season, in order to save her fathers life, Hazel returns to the Hub, Byrons high-tech palace. But once inside, she and Byron both become ensnared by Gogols newest revolutionary (and dangerous) technology. Season two series regulars: Cristin Milioti (as Hazel Green), Billy Magnussen (as Byron Gogol), Ray Romano (as Herbert Green), Dan Bakkendahl (as Herringbone), Noma Dumezweni (as Fiffany), Caleb Foote (as Bennett), Sarunas J. Jackson (as Jay) Season two credits: MADE FOR LOVE is executive produced by Christina Lee, Alissa Nutting, Patrick Somerville, Dean Bakopoulos, Liza Chasin, Daisy Mayer and SJ Clarkson. Christina Lee, season one showrunner, is joined by Alissa Nutting to showrun season two. MADE FOR LOVE is a production of Paramount Television Studios."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Saturday, March 12, 2022 Part Two Of Max Original Docuseries THE WAY DOWN: GOD, GREED, AND THE CULT OF GWEN SHAMBLIN Debuts April 28. HBO MAX The Way Down: God, Greed, and the Cult of Gwen Shamblin During todays panel at the 2022 SXSW Film Festival, HBO Max debuted a first look clip for part two of THE WAY DOWN: GOD, GREED, AND THE CULT OF GWEN SHAMBLIN. The final two episodes of the documentary series will be available to stream on THURSDAY, APRIL 28. Directed by Primetime Emmy-winning filmmaker Marina Zenovich, the five-episode documentary series from Campfire Studios and Huntley Productions examines the controversial Remnant Fellowship Church and its founder, the late Gwen Shamblin Lara. Part one debuted in September 2021 and was the most-watched docuseries on HBO Max at the time of release. Synopsis: After rising to fame with her Weigh Down Workshop, a Christian-based diet program, Gwen Shamblin Lara founded the Tennessee-based church. Despite a carefully curated image, Lara and the church soon fielded accusations of emotional, psychological, and physical abuse, and exploitation for their alleged cult-like practices. THE WAY DOWN explores the legacy of Remnants infamous leader –whose life came to a shocking end after a plane crash in May 2021. Part two of the docuseries examines the mysterious circumstances surrounding the cause of the crash and investigation into the aftermath, including new stories from former survivors who felt compelled to share their experience following Shamblins death. Credits: THE WAY DOWN is produced by Wheelhouse-backed Campfire Studios (WeWork: Or the Making and Breaking of a $47 Billion Unicorn, Heavens Gate: The Cult of Cults) and Huntley Productions. The documentary series is directed by Emmy-winning filmmaker Marina Zenovich (Robin Williams: Come Inside My Mind and LANCE) and executive produced by Zenovich, journalist Nile Cappello (Rolling Stone, Vice, The Atavist Magazine), Ross Dinerstein (Jiro Dreams of Sushi, The Innocent Man) Luke Dillon for 3 Arts Entertainment and Chrissy Teigen. P.G. Morgan (Flint Town, Diagnosis), Rebecca Evans (The Most Dangerous Animal of All, Hysterical) and Ross Girard (Special and Heavens Gate: The Cult of Cults) serve as co- executive producers. The music for the series is composed by Isobel Waller Bridge (Fleabag, Emma)."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Thursday, April 07, 2022 Season Five Of THE GREAT POTTERY THROW DOWN Debuts April 14. HBO MAX The Great Pottery Throw Down All ten episodes of season five of the fan-favorite unscripted Max Original series THE GREAT POTTERY THROW DOWN will be available to stream on the platform on THURSDAY, APRIL 14. Logline: Twelve of Britains best home potters compete to become champion of the pottery as Ellie Taylor hosts a brand new season of THE GREAT POTTERY THROW DOWN. Once again Judges Keith Brymer Jones and Rich Miller will put the potters through their paces. Credits: The series is produced by Love Productions (The Great British Bake Off) with Seasons 1-2 originally airing on BBC Two, season 3 on More 4 and season 4 on Channel 4. Richard McKerrow and Luke Byrne serve as executive producers."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Wednesday, March 23, 2022 Season Three Of The Max Original Adult Animated Series, CLOSE ENOUGH, From JG Quintel And Cartoon Network Studios, Debuts April 7. HBO MAX Close Enough Season three of the Max Original adult animated series CLOSE ENOUGH debuts THURSDAY, APRIL 7 with all eight episodes. Logline: From JG Quintel, creator of the Emmy winning REGULAR SHOW, comes CLOSE ENOUGH, a surreal animated comedy about a married couple, their five-year-old daughter, and their two divorced best friends/roommates, all sharing a cramped apartment on the eastside of Los Angeles. They navigate a chaotic time in their 30s as they struggle to grow up without growing old. Its about juggling work, kids, and pursuing your dreams, all while avoiding alien fitness cults, yacht-rock vampires, and silent film era bison. Their life may not be ideal, but for now, its close enough. Cast: JG Quintel, Gabrielle Walsh, Jason Mantzoukas, Kimiko Glenn, Danielle Brooks, Jessica DiCicco, James Adomian. Guest Cast: Henry Winkler, Laraine Newman, John Early, Nikki Glaser, Debra Wilson, Monét X. Change. Credits: CLOSE ENOUGH is created by JG Quintel and produced by Cartoon Network Studios."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Thursday, April 14, 2022 Season Two Of The Emmy Award- Winning Comedy Series HACKS Debuts May 12 On HBO Max. HBO MAX Hacks HBO Max and Universal Television today announced the Emmy-winning and critically- acclaimed Max Original comedy series HACKS will debut its second season THURSDAY, MAY 12 with two episodes. The eight-episode season continues with two new episodes a week, concluding June 2. Logline: The dark mentorship between legendary Las Vegas comedian Deborah Vance (Jean Smart) and her young, entitled writer Ava (Hannah Einbinder) continues to evolve as the two travel across the country workshopping Deborahs new stand-up act. Cast : Jean Smart, an Emmy, SAG Awards and Critics Choice Awards winner for her performance in season one of the series, will return along with Hannah Einbinder, Carl Clemons- Hopkins and Jane Adams, who were all nominated for Emmys for the first season. Returning cast members Christopher McDonald, Kaitlin Olson, Paul W. Downs, Poppy Liu, Rose Abdoo, Mark Indelicato, Meg Stalter, Angela E. Gibbs, Luenell, Johnny Sibilly, Joe Mande, Ally Maki and Lorenza Izzo also star. New recurring guest stars Laurie Metcalf, Martha Kelly, Ming-Na Wen and Susie Essman, and guest stars Margaret Cho and Devon Sawa join in the new season. Credits : HACKS is created and showrun by Emmy winners Paul W. Downs, Lucia Aniello and Jen Statsky. It is executive produced by Downs and Aniello via their Paulilu banner, Statsky via First Thought Productions, as well as Emmy winners Michael Schur via Fremulon, David Miner for 3 Arts Entertainment and Morgan Sackett. The studio is Universal Television, a division of Universal Studio Group."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Thursday, March 17, 2022 Season Two Of THE FLIGHT ATTENDANT Debuts April 21 On HBO Max. HBO MAX The Flight Attendant Season two of the critically acclaimed Max Original dark comedy series THE FLIGHT ATTENDANT debuts THURSDAY, APRIL 21 with two episodes. The eight-episode season continues with two new episodes on April 28, followed by one episode weekly concluding May 26. Season 2 logline: Cassie Bowden (Kaley Cuoco) is living her best sober life in Los Angeles while moonlighting as a CIA asset in her spare time. But when an overseas assignment leads her to inadvertently witness a murder, she becomes entangled in another international intrigue. The season filmed in Los Angeles, Berlin and Reykjavik. Season 2 cast: Returning series regulars Cuoco, Zosia Mamet, Griffin Matthews, Deniz Akdeniz and Rosie Perez. Returning recurring guest stars T.R. Knight, Yasha Jackson and Audrey Grace Marshall. The season also stars new series regulars Mo McRae, Callie Hernandez and J.J. Soria, as well as new recurring guest stars Alanna Ubach, Cheryl Hines, Jessie Ennis, Mae Martin, Margaret Cho, Santiago Cabrera, Sharon Stone and Shohreh Aghdashloo. Credits: THE FLIGHT ATTENDANT is developed by showrunner Steve Yockey, who serves as executive producer alongside co-showrunner and executive producer Natalie Chaidez. Greg Berlanti, Kaley Cuoco, Sarah Schechter, David Madden, Suzanne McCormack and Silver Tree are executive producers. Jess Meyer is co-executive producer and Bonnie Munoz is producer. The series is produced by Warner Bros. Television, Cuocos Yes, Norman Productions and Berlanti Productions. Season one was based on the novel of the same name by New York Times bestselling author Chris Bohjalian."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"season-two-of-the-max-original-comedy-series-starstruck-debuts-march-24.pdf Wednesday, March 16, 2022 Season Two Of The Max Original Comedy Series STARSTRUCK Debuts March 24. HBO MAX Starstruck Max Original series, STARSTRUCK, from comedian Rose Matafeo and co-writers Alice Snedden and Nic Sampson, returns for a second season with all six episodes debuting THURSDAY, MARCH 24. Hailed as a charmer by The New York Times, and the breakout star of 2021 by The Guardian, Matafeo returns to play Jessie in STARSTRUCK, a millennial living in East London navigating the complications of becoming romantically involved with Tom (Nikesh Patel), a famous film star. The season two ensemble cast also includes Minnie Driver and Russell Tovey. Season one is currently streaming on HBO Max. Logline: After her grand gesture at the end of season one, in season two, Jessie must deal with the real-world consequences of deciding to stay and pursue a relationship with Tom, rather than sticking to her original plan of returning home to New Zealand. Cast: Rose Matafeo, Nikesh Patel, Emma Sidi, Joe Barnes, Al Roberts, Ambreen Razia, Alice Snedden, Lola-Rose Maxwell, Nic Sampson, Edward Easton, Parth Thakerar, Jordan Stephens and Minnie Driver. Credits: Produced by Avalon (Breeders, Everythings Gonna Be Okay, Last Week Tonight With John Oliver, Flatbush Misdemeanours), STARSTRUCK is executive produced by Rose Matafeo, Jon Thoday, Richard Allen-Turner, Rob Aslett and Toby Welch. Claire McCarthy is series producer."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Monday, March 21, 2022 This April Stream The Flight Attendant, A Black Lady Sketch Show, Barry, The Survivor, We Own This City, Tony Hawk: Until the Wheels Fall Off, And More On HBO Max. HBO MAX This April, HBO Max brings a diverse slate of award-winning thrillers, mysteries, and fantasy series that fans will love, not just watch. The original comedies coming to the platform are guaranteed to make fans LOL. Fasten your seatbelts! In the season two premiere of the Emmy-winning series The Flight Attendant (4/21) , Cassie is living her best sober life in Los Angeles while moonlighting as a CIA asset in her spare time. But when an overseas assignment leads her to inadvertently witness a murder, she becomes entangled in another international intrigue. HBO Max continues to celebrate Black girl magic with the season three premiere of the Emmy-winning series A Black Lady Sketch Show (4/8), set in a limitless magical reality full of dynamic, hilarious characters and celebrity guests. The Emmy-winning dark comedy series Barry (4/24) returns this month. Desperate to leave his violent past behind in favor of his newfound passion, Barry is attempting to untangle himself from the world of contract killing and fully immerse himself in acting. This month also brings one-of-a-kind real-life stories that reflect the human experience on the screen. Fans will immerse themselves into stories of complex characters that connect with everyone. From Academy Award-winner Barry Levinson comes The Survivor (4/27), an HBO Original from filmmaker Barry Levinson, and starring Ben Foster as the lead. Tells an incredible true story of Harry Haft, who, after being sent to Auschwitz, survives not only the inhumane persecution of the camp, but the gladiatorial boxing spectacles he is forced to perform with his fellow prisoners for the amusement of his captors. From the producers of HBOs critically acclaimed The Wire, comes We Own This City, (4/25) chronicling the rise and fall of the Baltimore Police Departments Gun Trace Task Force and the corruption permeating an American city. Fans will get a full 360 look into the life of legendary pro skateboarder Tony Hawk in the feature documentary Tony Hawk: Until The Wheels Fall Off (4/5). This documentary is an all- encompassing look at the skateboarders life, legendary career, and relationship with the sport with which hes been synonymous for decades. Inspired by Jake Adelsteins non-fiction first-hand account of the Tokyo Metropolitan Police, Tokyo Vice (4/7) captures Adelsteins daily descent into the neon-soaked underbelly of Tokyo in the late 90s, where betrayal and suspicion lurk behind every corner. Other original programming premiering this month delivers a wide array of unique stories that resonate across all genres. The following titles will deliver new distinctive storylines, multi-dimensional characters and talk-worthy content. Fans of Adam McKay will enjoy The Invisible Pilot (4/4), a three-part documentary series by Emmy-winning filmmakers Phil Lott and Ari Mark. The labyrinthine story is a tale of a daring husband and father who unexpectedly jumps off of a bridge in 1977, despite his successful career as a pilot and seemingly happy home life. The story begins in the Midwest and ends up as part of one of the biggest political scandals of the 21st century. Part two of The Way Down: God, Greed, And The Cult Of Gwen Shamblin (4/28), directed by Primetime Emmy-winning filmmaker Marina Zenovich, highlights the legacy of Remnants infamous leader, whose life came to a shocking end after a plane crash in May 2021. Mystery fans can follow Hercule Poirots investigation with Death On The Nile (3/29), an adaptation of a classic tale, following a murder mystery. While on vacation on the Nile, Hercule Poirot must investigate the murder of a young heiress. Horror fans will get their thrills from The Night House (4/8), which follows Beth, a widow who discovers a dark secret about the house her deceased architect husband built. During her investigation of the house, she soon realizes its disturbing secrets. Additional highly anticipated originals debuting this month include The Emmy-nominated Max Original series Made for Love (4/28 ), returns for its second season. Starring Cristin Milioti, Ray Romano, and Billy Magnussen, the comedy series is a cynically poignant story of love and divorce, season two of Gentleman Jack, , documentary series Not So Pretty (4/14), the season five premiere of the international hit The Great Pottery Throw Down (4/14), and the season 4 part B premiere of Young Justice (3/31). TITLES COMING TO HBO MAX IN APRIL: Exact Dates To Be Announced: Gentleman Jack, Season 2 Premiere (HBO) March 29: Death On The Nile, 2022 (HBO) March 31: Young Justice, Max Original Season 4B Premiere April 1: 10, 1979 Annabelle, 2014 (HBO) Armed and Dangerous, 1986 Balls Out: Gary the Tennis Coach, 2009 Battle Los Angeles, 2011 Beetlejuice, 1988 Bells Are Ringing, 1960 Black Gold, 1947 Blood Ties, 2014 (HBO) Boys Night Out, 1962 Brewster McCloud, 1970 Bries Bake Off Challenge, 2022 Capote, 2005 (HBO) Captains Courageous, 1937 Chicago, 2002 (HBO) Children of the Damned, 1964 Czech It Out!, Max Original Premiere Dances With Wolves, 1990 (HBO) (Extended Version) Erased, 2013 (HBO) Fantastic Beasts: A Natural History, 2022 Five Easy Pieces, 1970 Ghosts of Girlfriends Past, 2009 Girl Most Likely, 2013 (HBO) Graffiti Bridge, 1990 Hugo, 2011 (HBO) Insidious, 2010 Iron Eagle, 1986 Iron Eagle II, 1988 Kin, 2018 (HBO) Krull, 1983 (HBO) Larry Crowne, 2011 Les Miserables, 1998 Limitless, 2011 (HBO) Moon, 2009 (HBO) Moscow on the Hudson, 1984 Nobodys Fool, 1994 (HBO) Odd Man Out, 1947 On the Waterfront, 1954 One True Singer, Max Original Season 1 Premiere Only Lovers Left Alive, 2014 (HBO) Original Sin, 2001 (HBO) (Extended Version) Peggy Sue Got Married, 1986 Point Break, 2015 (HBO) Rain Man, 1988 (HBO) Red, 2010 (HBO) Rendez-Vous, 2020 (HBO) Revolver, 2007 (HBO) Salt, 2010 Seven Brides for Seven Brothers, 1954 Sex Drive, 2008 (HBO) (Extended Version) She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, 1949 Show Boat, 1936 Six Degrees Of Separation, 1993 (HBO) Slc Punk!, 1999 (HBO) Spartan, 2004 (HBO) Special Agent, 1935 Summer of 42, 1971 Surfs Up 2: WaveMania, 2017 Sweet Bird of Youth, 1962 The Asphalt Jungle, 1950 The Big Chill, 1983 The Big House, 1930 The Boondock Saints II: All Saints Day, 2009 (HBO) (Directors Cut) The Break-Up, 2006 (HBO) The Brothers Solomon, 2007 (HBO) The Chosen, 1982 (HBO) The Freshman, 1990 (HBO) The Heartbreak Kid, 2007 (HBO) The Incredible Hulk, 2008 (HBO) The Informant (aka A Besugo), Max Original Season 1 Premiere The Ladies Man, 2000 (HBO) The Last Airbender, 2010 (HBO) The Last Detail, 1973 The Last Dragon, 1985 The Raid: Redemption, 2012 (HBO) (Extended Version) The Relic, 1997 (HBO) The Secret In Their Eyes, 2010 (HBO) The Secret Life Of Walter Mitty, 2013 (HBO) The Thaw (aka Odwilz), Max Original Season 1 Premiere The Thirteenth Floor, 1999 The Toy, 1982 The Wackness, 2008 (HBO) Tootsie, 1982 (HBO) Under the Cherry Moon, 1986 Universal Soldier: The Return, 1999 Vice Versa, 1988 Welcome To Collinwood, 2002 (HBO) Whos Harry CRUMB?, 1989 (HBO) William Shakespeares Romeo + Juliet, 1996 (HBO) Winter Meeting, 1948 Wrath Of The Titans, 2012 April 2: Batwoman, Season 3 Chad April 4: The Invisible Pilot, Documentary Series Premiere (HBO) April 5: Man of Steel, 2013 (HBO) Tony Hawk: Until the Wheels Fall Off, Documentary Premiere (HBO) Were The Millers, 2013 (HBO) April 7: Close Enough, Max Original Season 3 Queen Stars, Max Original Season 1 Premiere Tokyo Vice, Max Original Season 1 Premiere Trinity of Shadows, Max Original Season 1 Premiere April 8: A Black Lady Sketch Show, Season 3 Premiere (HBO) Crabs In A Barrel, 2022 (HBO) Mi Casa, 2022 (HBO) The Night House, 2021 (HBO) When You Clean A Strangers Home, 2022 (HBO) April 12: Black Mass, 2015 April 14: The Garcias, Max Original Season 1 Premiere Gensan Punch, Max Original Premiere The Great Pottery Throw Down, Max Original Season 5 Premiere Not So Pretty, Max Original Season 1 Premiere April 17: The House, 2017 April 21: Amsterdam, Max Original Season 1 Premiere Marlon Wayans Presents: The Headliners, Max Original Special Premiere The Flight Attendant, Max Original Season 2 Premiere April 22: A Tiny Audience, Season 3 Premiere (HBO) Toy Aficiao, 2021 (HBO) April 24: Barry, Season 3 Premiere (HBO) The Baby Limited Series Premiere (HBO) April 25: We Own This City, Limited Series Premiere (HBO) April 27: The Survivor, 2022 (HBO) April 28: Ana Emilia Show (aka Desafío Influencer con Ana Emilia), Max Original Premiere DoDo, Max Original Season 1 Premiere Lamput, Season 1-3 Made for Love, Max Original Season 2 Premiere Up Close with Ana Emilia, Max Original Special Premiere The Way Down: God, Greed, And The Cult Of Gwen Shamblin, Max Original Season 1 Part B Premiere April 29: Snowpiercer, Season 3 April 30: The Blair Witch Project, 1999 House of 1,000 Corpses, 2003 The Devils Rejects, 2005 TITLES LEAVING HBO MAX IN APRIL: April 3: Lifes Too Short, 2012 (HBO) April 30: 2 Fast 2 Furious, 2003 (HBO) A Good Day to Die Hard, 2013 (HBO) (Extended Version) Aftermath, 2017 (HBO) Anna to the Infinite Power, 1982 (HBO) Bloodsport, 1988 (HBO) Cake, 2005 (HBO) Cursed, 2005 (HBO) Darkness, 2004 (HBO) (Unrated Version) Executive Decision, 1996 (HBO) Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close, 2011 (HBO) Firehouse Dog, 2007 (HBO) For Greater Glory: the True Story of Cristiada, 2012 (HBO) Freejack, 1992 (HBO) Frida, 2002 (HBO) Getting Even With Dad, 1994 (HBO) Hearts in Atlantis, 2001 (HBO) Her Body, 2018 (HBO) Hitman, 2007 (HBO) (Extended Version) House, 2008 (HBO) Moonstruck, 1987 (HBO) My Babys Daddy, 2004 (HBO) My Big Fat Greek Wedding, 2002 (HBO) Never Let Me Go, 2010 (HBO) News of the World, 2020 (HBO) Poltergeist II: the Other Side, 1986 (HBO) Poltergeist III, 1988 (HBO) Promising Young Woman, 2020 (HBO) Senseless, 1998 (HBO) Showtime, 2002 (HBO) Something New, 2006 (HBO) Stigmata, 1999 (HBO) Summer School, 1987 (HBO) The Betrayed, 2008 (HBO) The Brady Bunch Movie, 1995 (HBO) The Day After Tomorrow, 2004 (HBO) The End, 1978 (HBO) The Fast and the Furious, 2001 (HBO) The Happening, 2008 (HBO) The Pope of Greenwich Village, 1984 (HBO) The Poseidon Adventure, 1972 (HBO) The Presidio, 1988 (HBO) The Seeker: the Dark Is Rising, 2007 (HBO) The Transporter, 2002 (HBO) The Wings of the Dove, 1997 (HBO) Thelma & Louise, 1991 (HBO) Tomcats, 2001 (HBO) Unleashed, 2005 (HBO) (Directors Cut) Waiting to Exhale, 1995 (HBO) Weightless, 2018 (HBO) Welcome to Sarajevo, 1997 (HBO) Witness, 1985 (HBO) Wont You Be My Neighbor?, 2018 (HBO)"
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Thursday, April 21, 2022 This May Stream Hacks, The Staircase, The Time Travelers Wife, George Carlins American Dream And More On HBO Max. HBO MAX This May, HBO Max is springing into a wide array of award-winning comedies, documentaries, and thrillers from a unique group of creators. Fans will immerse themselves in season two of the Emmy-winning Hacks (5/12) . In this new chapter of the comedy series, the dark mentorship between legendary Las Vegas comedian Deborah Vance and her young, entitled writer Ava continues to evolve as the two travel across the country workshopping Deborahs new stand-up act. A horrible accident or a crime of passion? Based on a true story, The Staircase (5/5), takes viewers behind the closed doors of a once happy home that abruptly became the scene of a murder. Starring Academy Award-winner Colin Firth and Emmy Award-winner Toni Collette, this limited series will have everyone on the edge of their seats. The Time Travelers Wife (5/15), inspired by the much-loved novel by Audrey Niffenegger and adapted by Stephen Moffat, tells the story of an enchanting love story between Clare and Henry. The love story has one small problem... time travel. This month also brings a diverse array of A-list talent that reflects the beauty and complexities of the human experience. Stories that will make you laugh, cry, and everything in between, will resonate with viewers as they see experiences that mirror their own unique journeys. Take a deeper look into George Carlin, the man dubbed the dean of counterculture comedians, in the two-part documentary George Carlins American Dream. From Emmy- winning directors Judd Apatow and Michael Bonfiglio, the documentary explores a cultural chameleon who is remembered as one of the most influential stand-up comics of all time. Michael Che is guaranteed to make everyone laugh in the season two premiere of That Damn Michael Che (5/26), where he illustrates what it feels like to experience everyday situations including racial profiling, unemployment, falling in love and more. Join Sam Jays house party with the season two premiere of PAUSE with Sam Jay, a comedy- talk-variety show thats an interview platform, a comedy show and a cultural lesson all in one. HBO Max has a content lineup for fans of all genres ranging from science fiction to family favorites to movie musicals, weve got the perfect line-up for the whole household. Red or blue pill? Fans of the Matrix trilogy will enjoy Warner Bros. Pictures The Matrix: Resurrections (5/10) when it returns to HBO Max in the month . Set sixty years after the revolutions, the film follows Neo to a world of two realities: one, everyday life; the other, what lies behind it. To find out if his reality is a physical or mental construct, to truly know himself, Mr. Anderson will have to choose to follow the white rabbit once more. Things are not what they seem on the tropical secluded beach in Old (5/13), which follows a family on a holiday vacation that discovers a secluded beach that is somehow causing them to age rapidly, reducing their entire lives into a single day. Dear Evan Hansen (5/6), is an American coming-of-age musical film about a high school student with social anxiety, adapted from the hit award-winning musical of the same name. Travel through the depths of space in Zathura: A Space Adventure (5/1) , where three siblings house is transported into space, and they are forced to finish a magical 1950s space-adventure board game. For little ones, Cartoonito on HBO Max is debuting Sesame Street Mecha Builders (5/10), an all-new preschool animated series from Sesame Workshop. Sesame Street Mecha Builders reimagines Elmo, Cookie Monster, and Abby Cadabby as robot heroes in training who use their STEM superpowers to solve wacky larger-than-life problems. Animated in a dynamic 3D style, this series will help older preschoolers practice foundational critical thinking skills while laughing along with their Sesame Street friends. TITLES COMING TO HBO MAX IN MAY: Exact Dates To Be Announced: George Carlins American Dream, Documentary Premiere (HBO) PAUSE with Sam Jay, Season 2 Premiere (HBO) May 1: Yellowface: Asian Whitewashing and Racism in Hollywood, 2019 47 Ronin, 2013 Assassins, 2020 (HBO) At Close Range, 1986 (HBO) An Autumn Afternoon, 1962 The Big Sleep, 1946 Back To School, 1986 Bottle Rocket, 1996 Calladita, 2020 (HBO) Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, 1968 (HBO) Child 44, 2015 (HBO) Chungking Express, 1994 The Color Purple, 1985 Conan The Barbarian, 2011 (HBO) Devil in A Blue Dress, 1995 Dodes Ka-Den, 1970 Domino, 2019 (HBO) Downhill, 1927 Dragnet Girl, 1933 Early Spring, 1956 Early Summer, 1951 The End of Summer, 1961 Equinox Flower, 1958 Eraser, 1996 Fallen Angels, 1995 Floating Weeds, 1959 FRIDA, 2002 (HBO) The Fugitive, 1993 Furry Vengeance, 2010 (HBO) Gang Related, 1997 (HBO) Good Morning, 1959 Hard Rain, 1998 (HBO) Harts War, 2002 (HBO) High and Low, 1963 Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius, 2001 (HBO) Julie, 1956 Killers, 2010 (HBO) Language Lessons, 2021 Love and Baseball, 2021 The Machine That Kills Bad People, 1952 Masters Of The Universe, 1987 (HBO) The Missing, 2003 (HBO) The New Guy, 2002 (HBO) North Dallas Forty, 1979 (HBO) Not Easily Broken, 2009 The Perks of Being a Wallflower, 2012 Poseidon, 2006 Red Beard, 1965 Ringo and His Golden Pistol, 1966 Rugrats Go Wild, 2003 (HBO) Rugrats In Paris: The Movie, 2000 (HBO) The Rugrats Movie, 1998 (HBO) The Sapphires, 2012 (HBO) Sense and Sensibility, 1995 Sliding Doors, 1998 St. Elmos Fire, 1985 The Stepford Wives, 2004 (HBO) Street Fighter: The Legend of Chun-Li, 2009 (Extended Version) Terminator 2: Judgment Day, 1991 (Directors Cut) (HBO) Tokyo Twilight, 1957 Top Secret!, 1984 (HBO) Transporter 3, 2008 (HBO) Unbroken, 2014 Underworld, 2003 Underworld: Awakening, 2012 Underworld: Rise of the Lycans, 2009 Welcome to the Dollhouse, 1995 W.E., 2011 (HBO) What To Expect When Youre Expecting, 2012 (HBO) The Wild Thornberrys Movie, 2002 (HBO) You, Me and Dupree, 2006 Young Adult, 2011 (HBO) Zathura: A Space Adventure, 2005 May 3: Spring Awakening: Those Youve Know, Documentary Premiere (HBO) May 5: Las Bravas F.C., Max Original Season 1 Premiere Queen Stars Brazil, Max Original Season 1 Premiere The Staircase, Max Original Limited Series Premiere May 6: Dear Evan Hansen, 2021 (HBO) Entre Nos: Carmen and Alfred (HBO) La Afinadora De Árboles, 2019 (HBO) May 7: We Baby Bears, Season 1 Part C May 9: Get Hard, 2015 May 10: Catwoman: Hunted, 2022 The Matrix: Resurrections, 2021 (HBO) Sesame Street Mecha Builders Season 1 Part A Robot Chicken Season 11 Part B May 12: Hacks, Max Original Season 2 Premiere Whos By Your Side, Max Original Season 1 Premiere May 13: Hank Zipzer, 2014 Old, 2021 (HBO) Smalls, Season 4 May 15: The Time Travelers Wife, Drama Series Premiere (HBO) May 17: Sesame Street Mecha Builders, Season 1 Part B The Mule, 2018 (HBO) May 20: Identidad Tomada, 2020 (HBO) May 22: Fast Foodies, Season 2 May 23: Teen Titans Go! Season 7 Part B May 26: Navalny That Damn Michael Che, Max Original Season 2 Premiere Tig n Seek, Max Original Season 4 Premiere May 27: Blippi Special Blippi Visits Blippi Wonders Blippi: Learn With Blippi Ghost, Season 1 Ghost, Season 2 Stath Lets Flats May 29: The Misery Index Season 3 Part B, 2021 May 31: Miami Vice, 2006 (Extended Version) TITLES LEAVING HBO MAX IN MAY: May 14: Cry Wolf, 2005 (Extended Version) (HBO) May 24: Cinderella Man, 2005 (Extended Version) The 40-Year-Old Virgin, 2005 (Directors Cut) (HBO) May 25: Curious George, 2006 (HBO) Two For The Money, 2005 (HBO) May 27: Doom, 2005 (HBO) Pride & Prejudice, 2005 (HBO) May 31: 27 Dresses, 2008 (HBO) The Animal, 2001 (HBO) A Perfect Murder, 1998 (HBO) A Very Brady Sequel, 1996 (HBO) Adult Beginners, 2014 (HBO) Army Of Darkness, 1992 (HBO) Billy Elliot, 2000 Bully, 2001 (HBO) Changing Lanes, 2002 (HBO) Clueless, 1995 (HBO) Control Room, 2004 (HBO) Cymbeline, 2014 (HBO) Dead Heat, 1988 (HBO) Dirty Pretty Things, 2002 (HBO) Doctor Dolittle, 1998 (HBO) Doubt, 2008 Dr. Dolittle 2, 2001 (HBO) Enough Said, 2013 (HBO) Extract, 2009 (HBO) Fatal Attraction, 1987 Frontera, 2014 (HBO) Gloria, 1999 (HBO) Godsend, 2004 (HBO) How To Be Single, 2016 Insomnia, 2002 (HBO) Iris, 2001 (HBO) It Takes Two, 1995 (HBO) Killerman, 2019 (HBO) Leonard Cohen: Im Your Man, 2005 (HBO) Love And A .45, 1994 (HBO) Mama, 2013 (HBO) Mindhunters, 2004 (HBO) Phone Booth, 2002 (HBO) Princess Kaiulani, 2009 (HBO) Pulse, 2001 (HBO) Rubber, 2010 (HBO) Speed, 1994 Stoker, 2013 Super Capers, 2009 (HBO) The Answer Man, 2009 (HBO) The Benchwarmers, 2006 (HBO) The Conspirator, 2010 (HBO) The Forgotten, 2004 (HBO) The Good Doctor, 2011 (HBO) The Grifters, 1990 (HBO) The Italian Job, 2003 (HBO) The Lawnmower Man, 1992 (HBO) The Rules Of Attraction, 2002 (HBO) The Witches Of Eastwick, 1987 The Wolfpack, 2015 (HBO) The Wrecking Crew!, 2008 (HBO) This Is 40, 2012 Troll Hunter, 2010 (HBO) Two Lovers, 2008 (HBO) The Two Jakes, 1990 Viva, 2007 (HBO) War Horse, 2011 War On Everyone, 2016 (HBO) Worlds Greatest Dad, 2009 (HBO) Wristcutters: A Love Story, 2006 (HBO)"
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Monday, April 11, 2022 Warner Bros. Pictures Global Blockbuster THE BATMAN, From Filmmaker Matt Reeves And Starring Robert Pattinson And Zoë Kravitz, To Debut April 18 On HBO Max. HBO MAX Coming to HBO Max The Warner Bros. Pictures global blockbuster, from writer/director Matt Reeves, THE BATMAN, starring Robert Pattinson in the dual role of Gotham Citys vigilante detective and his alter ego, reclusive billionaire Bruce Wayne, will be available to stream on HBO Max on MONDAY, APRIL 18 . Dylan Clark (the Planet of the Apes films) and Reeves produced the film. THE BATMAN will also air on HBO on Saturday, April 23 at 8:00PM ET. When a killer targets Gotham Citys elite with a series of sadistic machinations, a trail of cryptic clues sends the Worlds Greatest Detective on an investigation into the underworld, where he encounters such characters as Selina Kyle, The Penguin, Carmine Falcone and The Riddler. As the evidence begins to lead closer to home and the scale of the perpetrators plans becomes clear, The Batman must forge new relationships, unmask the culprit, and bring justice to the abuse of power and corruption that has long plagued Gotham City. Starring alongside Pattinson (Tenet, The Lighthouse) as Gothams famous and infamous cast of characters are Zoë Kravitz (Big Little Lies, Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald) as Selina Kyle; Paul Dano (Love & Mercy, 12 Years a Slave) as Edward Nashton, aka The Riddler; Jeffrey Wright (No Time to Die, Westworld) as the GCPDs James Gordon; John Turturro (the Transformers films, The Plot Against America) as Carmine Falcone; Peter Sarsgaard (The Magnificent Seven, Interrogation) as Gotham D.A. Gil Colson; Jayme Lawson (Farewell Amor) as mayoral candidate Bella Reál; with Andy Serkis (the Planet of the Apes films, Black Panther) as Alfred; and Colin Farrell (The Gentlemen, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them) as Oz, aka The Penguin. Reeves (The Planet of the Apes franchise) directed from a screenplay by Reeves & Peter Craig, based on characters from DC. Batman was created by Bob Kane with Bill Finger. Michael E. Uslan, Walter Hamada, Chantal Nong Vo and Simon Emanuel served as executive producers."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Tuesday, March 08, 2022 WarnerMedia Kids & Family and Sesame Workshop Expand Content Partnership With New Animated Adventures and Fresh Takes on Family Classics. CARTOON NETWORK . HBO MAX Download Artwork HERE March 8, 2022 – New York, NY and Burbank, CA – WarnerMedia Kids & Family and Sesame Workshop, the nonprofit organization behind Sesame Street, today announced the next phase of their growing content partnership. Sesame Street Mecha Builders, the first of many new Sesame Workshop originals for WarnerMedias Cartoonito preschool programming block, is set to debut on HBO Max and Cartoon Network in early May. More animated series and specials, including newly greenlit family miniseries Charlottes Web , upcoming preschool shows Beas Block and a Sesame Street- themed reimagining of The Nutcracker, are also set to debut this year, with other exciting projects already in the works. Sesame Street Mecha Builders reimagines Elmo, Cookie Monster, and Abby Cadabby as robot heroes in training who use their STEM superpowers to solve wacky larger-than-life problems. Animated in a dynamic 3D style, this series will help older preschoolers practice foundational critical thinking skills while laughing along with their Sesame Street friends. The first five episodes will air on Cartoonito on Cartoon Network on Monday, May 9, hitting HBO Max the following day. Launching later in the year also on Cartoonito, Beas Block will introduce viewers to a new world where vibrant and diverse wooden block characters–Bea and her friends–tumble, stack, and roll their way through kindness-filled adventures. Both series will include fully integrated educational curricula, engaging music, and a whole lot of heart – everything parents expect from the makers of Sesame Street. Our relationship with Sesame Workshop is critical in ensuring that we have an ongoing lineup of content that parents find unquestionably safe, educational, and entertaining for their kids to enjoy, said Tom Ascheim, President, Warner Bros. Global Kids, Young Adults and Classics. The new and classic properties were developing together have just the right multigenerational appeal to resonate with parents and children alike, with fresh music and characters offering some surprises along the way. Building on Sesame Workshops legacy of innovation in the childrens entertainment space, were thrilled to continue partnering with WarnerMedia Kids & Family as they build an industry-leading library of both preschool and family-focused content, said Steve Youngwood, CEO of Sesame Workshop . From brand new adventures to reimagined classics, everything we create at Sesame Workshop is bursting with the kinds of compelling characters and storylines that todays kids love, built on a solid educational framework that parents can trust – perfect for creating new family traditions. Looking ahead, Sesame Street: The Nutcracker is an animated special that follows Elmo and his new puppy, Tango, on a fantastical holiday adventure. This imaginative special will populate the beloved holiday story with kids favorite Sesame Street characters, blending new and classic music for all ages to enjoy. The special will premiere during the 2022 holiday season. Production on Charlottes Web, an animated family miniseries based on the classic childrens book by E.B. White, will begin in the coming weeks. While fans and families wait for these new series, they can enjoy many other Sesame Workshop favorites. Sesame Street spinoff The Not Too Late Show with Elmo and the animated Esme & Roy are available now on Cartoonito on HBO Max and Cartoon Network. HBO Max is also the proud home of Sesame Street; new episodes of the iconic series 52nd season premiere on the platform every Thursday, with decades of classic episodes available on demand. ### About WarnerMedia Kids & Family WarnerMedia Kids & Family is the united group within the WarnerMedia enterprise that offers an expansive content slate on HBO Max and Cartoon Network. As the umbrella brand for all kids and family content, Cartoon Network reenergized its brand promise through its new tagline Redraw Your World, which empowers individuality and aims to be the place where kids are free to be themselves. With hundreds of hours of original series, specials and acquisitions, the WarnerMedia Kids & Family portfolio features its Cartoonito preschool programming block; a roster of upcoming animation and live-action originals that appeal to kids of all ages; and ACME Night, a weekend entertainment destination for families to enjoy a line-up of library favorites and blockbuster hits as well as new originals that will include Batman: Caped Crusader, Gremlins Secrets of the Mogwai, Unicorn: Warriors Eternal, and more. A marquee collection of powerhouse brands and expertise marks WarnerMedia Kids & Family as a global leader wherever its brands live and engage with audiences all over the world. About Sesame Workshop Sesame Workshop is the nonprofit educational organization behind Sesame Street, the pioneering television show that has been reaching and teaching children since 1969. Today, Sesame Workshop is an innovative force for change, with a mission to help kids everywhere grow smarter, stronger, and kinder. Were present in more than 150 countries, serving vulnerable children through a wide range of media, formal education, and philanthropically funded social impact programs, each grounded in rigorous research and tailored to the needs and cultures of the communities we serve. For more information, please visit www.sesameworkshop.org."
"HBO Max";"Press Release";"Wednesday, March 02, 2022 WarnerMedia Kids & Family Picks Up New Episodes of Jellystone! Ahead of Season Two Premiere on Thursday, Mar. 17 on HBO Max. CARTOON NETWORK . HBO MAX Watch season two trailer HERE Download season two key art HERE March 2, 2022— Burbank, CA — Yogi, Boo Boo, Cindy and fellow Hanna-Barbera characters have many more misadventures ahead in the quaint little town of Jellystone. Announced today, WarnerMedia Kids & Family has picked up additional new episodes of the hit animated comedy from Warner Bros. Animation. The news comes as Jellystone! prepares to debut its second season on Thursday, Mar. 17 on HBO Max. A trailer for season two was also revealed today. All Jellystone! episodes will be available at a later date on Cartoon Network. The Max Original series helmed by acclaimed showrunner and executive producer C.H. Greenblatt (Chowder, Harvey Beaks) presents a reimagined take on the beloved cartoon characters, modernizing them for todays family audience and introducing them to a new generation of fans. The newly announced episodes will continue expanding the kooky town of Jellystone, digging deeper into the Hanna-Barbera library to feature as many popular and obscure characters as possible. Its been great to dip back into the vast world of Hanna-Barbera characters, said Greenblatt. Fans can expect more silly adventures from their favorite Jellystone citizens—whether thats flying to the moon, pretending to be a sea monster to get everyone off the beach, trying to get arrested to go to a swanky jail, or overcoming other wacky obstacles. Season two premiering in March consists of 19 new episodes. In this next batch, fans can look forward to their favorite characters crossing paths in fun and ridiculous ways including, Augie, Shag, and Yakky accidentally turning everyone in Jellystone into babies, Jabberjaw and Loopy dressing up as sea monsters, and Yogi, Doggie Daddy, and Mildew Wolf teaming up to save the town. Jellystone! Series Description: Welcome to Jellystone, a quaint little community chock-full of colorful characters. It would be a peaceful place, if it werent for the hilarious personalities constantly getting themselves, and the town, into trouble! Yogi Bear, Cindy Bear, and Boo Boo are the medical staff at Jellystone Hospital, Jabberjaw is hungry for a promotion at Magilla Gorillas swanky clothing shop, El Kabong fights crime, and Doggie Daddy takes helicopter parenting of Augie Doggie to new heights. With Huckleberry Hound as mayor and Top Cat running the streets, theres never a dull moment in this madcap little town! Cast: The voice cast includes: C.H. Greenblatt , the voice of Doggie Daddy, Boo Boo, Peter Potamus, and Benny; Jeff Bergman , the voice of Yogi, Mr. Jinks, Wally Gator, and Lippy the Lion; Jim Conroy , the voice of Huckleberry Hound, Captain Caveman, and Pa Rugg; Georgie Kidder, the voice of Auggie Doggie, Brain, and Floral Rugg; Grace Helbig , the voice of Cindy Bear, Yappy, Taffy, and Granny Sweet; Niccole Thurman, the voice of Jabberjaw, Squiddly Diddly, and Dee Dee Sykes; Thomas Lennon, the voice of Top Cat; Ron Funches, the voice of Shag Rugg; Bernardo de Paula , the voice of El Kabong and Mildew Wolf; Dana Snyder, the voice of Snagglepuss, Touché Turtle, and Lambsy; Katie Grober, the voice of Yakky Doodle; Paul F. Tompkins, the voice of Magilla Gorilla; Jenny Lorenzo, the voice of Bobbie Looey, Hardy Har Har, and Choo Choo; Fajer Al-Kaisi, the voice of Shazzan and Hadji; Lesley Nicol, the voice of Winsome Witch; Ulka Simone Mohanty, the voice of Loopy De Loop; and Andrew Frankel, the voice of Fancy Fancy and Jonny Quest. Crew: Jellystone! is executive produced by Emmy nominee C. H. Greenblatt (Chowder, Harvey Beaks) alongside Sam Register (Looney Tunes Cartoons, Teen Titans Go!). Adam Middleton (Scooby-Doo and Guess Who?, Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz) produces ### About WarnerMedia Kids & Family WarnerMedia Kids & Family is the united group within the WarnerMedia enterprise that offers an expansive content slate on HBO Max and Cartoon Network. As the umbrella brand for all kids and family content, Cartoon Network reenergized its brand promise through its new tagline Redraw Your World, which empowers individuality and aims to be the place where kids are free to be themselves. With hundreds of hours of original series, specials and acquisitions, the WarnerMedia Kids & Family portfolio features its Cartoonito preschool programming block; a roster of upcoming animation and live-action originals that appeal to kids of all ages; and ACME Night, a weekend entertainment destination for families to enjoy a line-up of library favorites and blockbuster hits as well as new originals that will include Batman: Caped Crusader, Gremlins Secrets of the Mogwai, Unicorn: Warriors Eternal, and more. A marquee collection of powerhouse brands and expertise marks WarnerMedia Kids & Family as a global leader wherever its brands live and engage with audiences all over the world. About Warner Bros. Animation Warner Bros. Animation (WBA) is one of the leading producers of animation in the entertainment industry, producing and developing projects for multiple platforms, both domestically and internationally. WBAs current series include Animaniacs for Hulu, Green Eggs and Ham and Wings of Fire for Netflix, Batman: Caped Crusader, Batwheels, Bugs Bunny Builders, Gremlins: Secrets of the Mogwai Harley Quinn, Jellystone!, Little Ellen, Looney Tunes Cartoons, My Adventures with Superman, Tiny Toons Looniversity, Tom and Jerry Time, Tom and Jerry in New York, Velma and Young Justice for HBO Max, DC Super Hero Girls and Teen Titans Go! for Cartoon Network, Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz, Scooby-Doo! and Guess Who?, The Tom and Jerry Show and Yabba-Dabba Dinosaurs! for Boomerang. WBA is also in production on a series of animated longform movie specials for ACME Night, WarnerMedia Kids & Familys family programming block on Cartoon Network and HBO Max. Programs include Did I Do that to the Holidays? A Steve Urkel Story, Merry Little Batman and an Untitled Looney Tunes Cartoons movie. The studio is currently in production with New Line Cinema on the upcoming original anime feature film, The Lord of the Rings: The War of the Rohirrim. WBAs full-length theatrical film, Teen Titans GO! to the Movies, was released in summer 2018. As home to the iconic animated characters from the DC, Hanna-Barbera, MGM and Looney Tunes libraries, WBA also produces highly successful animated films — including the DC Universe Movies — for DVD, Blu- ray and digital media. One of the most-honored animation studios in history, WBA has won six Academy Awards, 40 Emmy Awards, the George Foster Peabody Award, a BAFTA Childrens Award, an Environmental Media Award, a Parents Choice Award, the HUMANITAS Prize, two Prism Awards and 21 Annie Awards (honoring excellence in animation)."
"Paramount";"Letter to Stockholders";"To Our Stockholders, 2021 was an extraordinary year for our company. As the world continued to navigate ongoing challenges, we came together to maximize the power of our content, accelerate our momentum in streaming, serve our audiences and partners and position the company for long-term value creation. Our relentless focus on execution resulted in strong streaming growth, a fortified balance sheet, and most importantly, a spectacular near-term content slate and a growing portfolio of world class franchises. We raised $2.7 billion of capital from an equity offering and took significant steps to align allocation of capital with our strategic growth priorities, aided by the sale of non-core assets like BlackRock and the CBS Studio Center in Los Angeles, to fund incremental content and other investments to further drive our streaming ambitions. We embraced change, rebranding our company as Paramount, a globally recognized name that better represents our superior storytelling for diverse audiences, signals our exciting future in streaming with ParamountPlus, and unifies our trade name with 2021s fastest growing US consumer brand. Our streaming momentum is clearly building. As we look ahead, we see a huge global opportunity, larger than television and film alone, where our differentiated playbook leverages our broad content, our multi-faceted streaming business model, our diverse mix of platforms and extensive global reach. This breadth positions us to serve a larger accessible market, penetrate it more quickly, and deliver compelling long-term economics efficiently and sustainably. We like our position and our ability to compete and succeed, and thereby create significant value for both consumers and shareholders. We finished 2021 with strong results that reflect this tremendous progress. For the year, total company revenue was $28.6 billion, up 13% year-over-year, driven by a 64% year-over-year increase in streaming revenue, 11% growth in advertising revenue and a 5% increase in affiliate revenue, demonstrating the underlying reliable strength of our businesses. Paramounts core business is performing well. In Q4, CBS maintained its position as the most-watched network in Daytime and Late Night and claimed the top two dramas, the top 6 comedies, the #1 news program, and top three new programs. Additionally, Paramount maintained leadership as the #1 portfolio in share of viewing among key demos and owned the #1 cable series with Yellowstone and the #1 cable series among K2-11 with Paw Patrol. As we like to say, content is king. In streaming, we finished Q4 on a high note. We added 9.4 million streaming subscribers in Q4, reaching a total of 56.1 million global subscribers across our services. ParamountPlus continued to drive the vast majority of new subscribers in the quarter, with 7.3 million additions. Less than a year since its launch, we grew ParamountPlus total subscribers to 32.8 million. In ad-supported streaming, Pluto TV continued to thrive, delivering its biggest quarter of MAU growth by adding 10 million MAUs to reach 64.4 million MAUs globally. And for the full year 2021, it generated over $1 billion in revenue, almost five times what it delivered just two years ago. And in premium, SHOWTIME OTT also had a record quarter with sign-ups and engagement. Our ecosystem of free, pay and premium services is resonating with consumers and solidifying our position as a streaming leader. As you may recall, just one year ago, before ParamountPlus had launched, we targeted reaching 65 to 75 million global streaming subscribers across our services by the end of 2024. Now, because of the phenomenal growth, engagement and demand we have seen, we raised our 2024 target to more than 100 million global streaming subscribers and over $9 billion in global streaming revenue. This is only the beginning. We are confident we can accomplish these long-term goals because we have the foundation and strategy to succeed. We are expanding ParamountPlus globally. In just one year, we launched the service in 25 markets across Latin America, Canada, and Australia. In 2022, we are expanding to some of the biggest markets in the world. We will launch in the U.K., South Korea and the Caribbean by this summer and will continue with a focus on, Italy, Germany, France, Switzerland, and Austria in the second half of the year. We also have strong distribution partnerships with T-Mobile in the United States, Sky in Europe, and Canal+ in France. Beginning in 2023, we will turn our sights to Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, with the goal of launching ParamountPlus worldwide. Separately, we announced that SkyShowtime — an innovative joint venture with Comcast that serves territories encompassing 90 million homes, primarily in Eastern Europe — will be available in more than 20 markets by the end of 2022. We also acquired Fox TeleColombia and Estudios TeleMexico —which, on top of the production power of Viacom International Studios and our broadcasters TELEFE and Chilevision — solidified Paramount as a leading producer of Spanish language content globally. Our growth is a result of our exceptional and diverse content offering across every genre at scale, including beloved franchise extensions and all-new buzzworthy originals spanning must-see movies, scripted dramas, unscripted reality, comedy, kids and family, sports, news, and events. That enables us to serve the whole household, every generation, coast to coast. We capture a broad range of households by income and geography, and, increasingly, that is a model we are applying all over the world, creating hits in more than a dozen languages. In 2021, our must-watch content reached millions of fans across platforms worldwide. Viewers were drawn to a diverse mix of content, highlighted by the NFL, UEFA, 60 Minutes, and Adele One Night Only. We had hit movies like A Quiet Place Part II, Paw Patrol: The Movie. 1883 was the #1 original scripted drama on ParamountPlus, Dexter: New Blood was the #1 scripted drama season premiere telecast among premium channels, and Yellowstone was the #1 series of 2021 across television. In 2022, we have some amazing content coming across theatrical, streaming, and linear. On the big screen we have Top Gun: Maverick, in streaming, we have exclusives for the entire family, with shows like a live-action Sonic series, adult animation including SOUTH PARK, a fresh slate of global unscripted series, and scripted originals like 1932 — the next chapter of the Yellowstone origin story. Additionally, we had phenomenal results from the 2022 NCAA tournament and Masters Golf Tournament, with more great sports and live events coming. Clearly, we are investing and unleashing the power of our content across series, films, events, and more. But content alone does not define us. We strive to make diversity, equity, and inclusion part of who we are — etched into the fabric of our workforce and culture, seen in the content we create and the partners we work with, and always reflecting the audiences and communities we serve. From our annual global Inclusion Week to the launch of our new Diversity, Equity & Inclusion website, we strengthened our commitment to DE&I and fostered a workplace of belonging. We launched Content for Change, our global cross-company initiative to counteract racism, bias, stereotypes, and hate. And we took collective action in our response to COVID-19, social and racial justice, mental health, and civic engagement. All of this and more were captured in our 2020-2021 Environmental, Social, and Governance Report and Social Impact Review. In addition, we rallied employees worldwide to volunteer for our second Virtual Community Day. While the last two years presented enormous challenges, the silver lining was our increased focus on individual, family and community wellness. We partnered with Thrive Global to help us take better care of our health and thrive more in all aspects of our lives. Lastly, like many of you, and the entire Paramount family, we were devastated by the unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. The resulting humanitarian crisis and its ripple effects on the lives of millions of people across Ukraine, Eastern Europe, and in Russia itself, is heartbreaking. Since the beginning of this crisis, our teams across the world have been working around the clock to determine the best, and most importantly — safest — ways Paramount can show our respect and support for all those impacted. We launched a donation campaign to support humanitarian relief and have taken steps to suspend our operations in Russia. Reflecting on the past year, we are particularly proud of the work we did to support our global communities, while driving our business forward. We begin 2022 with a strong foundation, a gradual return to normalcy, and a hopeful optimism for the future. Employees are returning to the office in a hybrid environment, and consumers are resuming some of their pre-covid habits. Our company is uniquely positioned to succeed, and we owe a lot of that to our amazing employees. Their resilience in navigating uncertain times and delivering excellent results underpin all that weve accomplished. All of us at Paramount are committed to unlocking value across our business for our audiences, partners and stockholders and are thrilled about our future. As always, we appreciate your ongoing support in the evolution of Paramount. Best, Bob & Shari Robert M. Bakish President and Chief Executive Officer Shari Redstone Chair of the Board of Directors This letter should be read in conjunction with Paramounts 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risk factors discussed therein. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings release for the fourth quarter and full year 2021."
"Paramount";"2022 Proxy Statement";"UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 SCHEDULE 14A Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Amendment No.) Filed by the Registrant È Filed by a Party other than the Registrant  Check the appropriate box:  Preliminary Proxy Statement  Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2)) È Definitive Proxy Statement  Definitive Additional Materials  Soliciting Material under §240.14a-12 Paramount Global (Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter) (Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant) Payment of Filing Fee (Check all boxes that apply): È No fee required  Fee paid previously with preliminary materials  Fee computed on table in exhibit required by Item 25(b) per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11 Message To Our Stockholders Dear Stockholder: April 15, 2022 You are cordially invited to attend the 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Annual Meeting) of Paramount Global (we, us, our, Paramount or the Company), which is scheduled to be held by live webcast at 9:30 a.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on Wednesday, June 8, 2022. Holders of Paramount Class A Common Stock are being asked to vote on the matters listed in the attached Notice of 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Annual Meeting webcast may be attended by company stockholders and others by visiting the following website at the designated time: www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PARA2022. Access to the website will begin at 9:15 a.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 8th, and we encourage stockholders and other attendees to access the Annual Meeting website prior to the meeting start time. To be admitted to the Annual Meeting webcast at the website provided above, holders of Paramount Class A Common Stock and Paramount Class B Common Stock should enter the 16-digit control number found on their Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, proxy card or voting instruction card, as applicable. Any others may attend the meeting as a guest by following the instructions provided on the Annual Meeting website. As always, we encourage holders of Class A Common Stock to submit their proxy and vote their shares prior to the Annual Meeting. Class A stockholders may vote in advance of the meeting by telephone or through the Internet by following the instructions on the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials or in the 2022 Proxy Statement, or by returning a proxy card or voting instruction card if they received a printed copy of the proxy materials. Holders of Class A Common Stock may also vote during the Annual Meeting by following the instructions on the Annual Meeting website once they enter the meeting. Holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may submit questions in advance of the meeting, from 9:00 a.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on May 30, 2022 until 5:00 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 3, 2022, by visiting www.proxyvote.com, entering their 16-digit control number and following the instructions. Holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may also submit questions during the meeting and will find instructions for doing so on the Annual Meeting website once they enter the meeting. National Amusements, Inc., which as of April 11, 2022, beneficially owned shares of our Class A Common Stock representing approximately 77.4% of the voting power of Paramounts common stock, has advised us that it intends to vote all of its shares of our Class A Common Stock in accordance with the recommendations of the Board of Directors on Items 1, 2 and 3 in the attached Notice. Therefore, the determination of Items 1, 2 and 3 in accordance with the Boards recommendations is assured. If you have elected to receive printed copies of our proxy statements, annual reports and other materials relating to the Annual Meeting and want to elect to receive these documents electronically next year instead of by mail, please go to http:;enroll.icsdelivery.com/para and follow the instructions to enroll. We highly recommend that you consider electronic delivery of these documents as it helps to lower our costs and reduce the amount of paper mailed to your home. We appreciate your interest in and support of Paramount and look forward to your participation at the Annual Meeting. Sincerely, Robert M. Bakish President and Chief Executive Officer Key Strategic and Financial Highlights: • Launched ParamountPlus in March 2021, a global streaming service for our leading portfolio of brands, including originals, live sports, news, and over 30,000 episodes and movies; • Finalized key platform and distribution deals with TMobile, Roku, Twitter, Comcast, Charter, Altice and Cox, among others, using a unified approach across our portfolio; and • Expanded the global reach of ParamountPlus, Pluto TV and our other streaming services, including in Europe and Latin America, positioning Pluto TV to generate over $1 billion in revenue in 2021 Notice of 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders To Paramount Global Stockholders: The 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Annual Meeting) of Paramount Global (we, us, our, Paramount or the Company) will be held by  livewebcast at the date, time and website noted below. The close of business on April 11, 2022 has been fixed as the record date for determining the holders of shares of Paramount Class A Common Stock entitled to notice of and to vote at the Annual Meeting and any adjournment or postponement thereof. The principal business of the Annual Meeting will be the consideration of the following matters: 1 The election of 12 directors; 2 The ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to serve as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2022; 3 A stockholder proposal requesting that our Board of Directors take steps to reduce the threshold at which Company stockholders may call a special meeting, if properly presented at the Annual Meeting; and 4 Such other business as may properly come before the Annual Meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof. For a period of at least 10 days prior to the Annual Meeting, a complete list of stockholders entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting will be open to the examination of any stockholder during ordinary business hours by calling Investor Relations at 1-877-227-0787. In addition, a complete list of stockholders entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting will be open to the examination of any stockholder during the meeting by following the instructions on the Annual Meeting website once they enter the meeting. By order of the Board of Directors, Christa A. DAlimonte Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary April 15, 2022 Meeting Information Date and time: Wednesday, June 8, 2022 at 9:30 a.m. EDT Website: www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PARA2022 Record date: April 11, 2022 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL Table of Contents PROXY STATEMENT HIGHLIGHTS VOTING AND SOLICITATION OF PROXIES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) STRATEGY OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT RELATED PERSON TRANSACTIONS ITEM 1 ELECTION OF DIRECTORS DIRECTOR COMPENSATION Outside Director Compensation During 2021 Description of Director Compensation. ITEM RATIFICATION OF THE APPOINTMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE FEES FOR SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS . . . COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT . . . . . . . . . EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION . . . . . . . . . . . . .Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021 . . . . . . . . Grants of Plan-Based Awards During 2021 . . . . . Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Option Exercises and Stock Vested During 2021 . . .Pension Benefits in 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nonqualified Deferred Compensation in 2021 . . . Potential Payments Upon Termination and Certain Other Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 Pay Ratio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION . . . 69 ITEM 3 STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL REQUESTING THAT OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS TAKE STEPS TO REDUCE THE THRESHOLD AT WHICH COMPANY STOCKHOLDERS MAY CALL A SPECIAL MEETING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 OTHER MATTERS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 2023 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS . . . . 72 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL Paramount Global 2022 Proxy Statement Proxy Statement Highlights This summary highlights information contained elsewhere in this proxy statement. This summary does not contain all of the information you should consider, and you should read the entire proxy statement before voting. 2022 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS The 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Annual Meeting) of Paramount Global (we, us, our, Paramount or the Company) will be held by live webcast at the date, time and website noted below. Date and time: Wednesday, June 8, 2022 at 9:30 a.m. EDT Website: www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PARA2022 Record date: April 11, 2022 HOW TO VOTE If you are a stockholder of record, you may vote during the Annual Meeting by following the instructions on the Annual Meeting website once you enter the meeting, or by proxy using any of the following methods: By Internet: at www.proxyvote.com By mail: If you receive a paper copy of the proxy materials, you may also vote by completing, signing, dating and returning the proxy card by mail. By telephone: call toll-free 1-800-690-6903 Votes submitted by Internet or phone must be received by 11:59 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 7, 2022. Votes submitted by mail must be received prior to the Annual Meeting. Please see Voting and Solicitation of Proxies for detailed voting instructions. VOTING MATTERS AND BOARD RECOMMENDATIONS Item Description Board Vote Recommendation Page Reference (for more detail) 1 The election of 12 directors FOR each of the director nominees The ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to serve as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2022 FOR A stockholder proposal requesting that our Board of Directors take steps to reduce the threshold at which Company stockholders may call a special meeting, if properly presented at the Annual Meeting AGAINST 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 1 PROXY STATEMENT HIGHLIGHTS HOW TO SUBMIT QUESTIONS Holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may submit questions in advance of the meeting, from 9:00 a.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on May 30, 2022 until 5:00 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 3, 2022, by visiting www.proxyvote.com, entering their 16-digit control number and following the instructions. Holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may also submit questions during the meeting and will find instructions for doing so on the Annual Meeting website once they enter the meeting. BOARD AND GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS Board of Directors: Nominees for Election Our 12 director nominees are the current members of our Board of Directors (the Board of Directors or Board) and, as a group, have extensive and diverse leadership and subject matter experience and knowledge that is important to us. Our nominees include 9 independent directors. Name Age Director Since Career Highlights Independent Director Standing Committee Memberships Shari E. Redstone† 67 1994 Chairperson, Chief Executive Officer and President of National Amusements, Inc. and Co-Founder and Managing Partner of Advancit Capital Robert M. Bakish 58 2019 President and Chief Executive Officer, Paramount Global Candace K. Beinecke 75 2018 The Senior Partner of Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP NG Barbara M. Byrne 67 2018 Former Vice Chairman, Investment Banking at Barclays PLC AC Linda M. Griego 74 2007 President and Chief Executive Officer of Griego Enterprises, Inc. CC Robert N. Klieger 50 2017 Partner at Hueston Hennigan LLP Judith A. McHale 75 2019 President and Chief Executive Officer of Cane Investments, LLC AC; CC Ronald L. Nelson 69 2019 Former Executive Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Avis Budget Group AC; CC Charles E. Phillips, Jr. 62 2019 Co-Founder and Managing Partner of Recognize NG Susan Schuman 62 2018 Executive Chair and Co-Founder of SYPartners LLC and Vice Chair of kyu Collective NG Nicole Seligman 65 2019 Former President of Sony Entertainment, Inc. NG Frederick O. Terrell 67 2018 Senior Advisor, Centerbridge Partners AC AC = Audit Committee CC = Compensation Committee NG = Nominating and Governance Committee Committee Chairn Non-Executive Chair of the Board PARAMOUNT GLOBAL PROXY STATEMENT HIGHLIGHTS Director Nominee Composition Average Age Independence Diversity | Gender and/or Ethnicity Diversity | Ethnicity Diversity | Gender Non- Independent Directors Directors Directors Independent YEARS AVERAGE AGE INDEPENDENT of directors are gender/ethnically diverse 75% of directors are ethnically diverse 25% of directors are women 58% 40-50 yrs 51-60 yrs 61-70 yrs 71+ yrs 1 1 73 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION HIGHLIGHTS Compensation Philosophy and Objectives We designed our executive compensation programs to motivate and reward business success and to increase shareholder value, based on the following core objectives: Pay for Performance Ensure plans provide reward levels that reflect variances between actual and desired performance results. Flexible Enable management and the Board to make decisions based on the needs of the business and to recognize different levels of individual contribution Market Competitive Consider compensation programs of our peers in order to attract and retain the talent needed to drive sustainable competitive advantage and deliver value to shareholders. Focused on Shareholder Value Align executives interests with shareholder interests, with particular emphasis on creating incentives that reward executives for consistently increasing the value of Paramount. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 3 PROXY STATEMENT HIGHLIGHTS Pay for Performance We believe that those executives with significant responsibility and a greater ability to influence our results should have a significant portion of their total compensation tied directly to business results, and we have continued to shift our executive compensation packages to further emphasize performance-based compensation that is aligned with our business and operational strategy. Accordingly, a high percentage of our senior executives total target compensation, including that of our named executive officers (NEOs), is at risk – meaning that we do not intend for them to receive targeted pay amounts if performance does not meet expectations. Consistent with this philosophy, our performance-based compensation programs provide for the opportunity to reward NEOs and other senior executives for contributing to annual financial and operational performance (through annual bonus programs) and stock price appreciation (through long-term equity incentives). The only fixed component of pay is annual base salary. Annual cash incentive awards and long-term equity incentive awards are subject to company performance and/or stock price performance. As illustrated below, approximately 90% of Mr. Bakishs total target compensation as of December 31, 2021 was at risk and thus strongly linked to our results. Mr. Bakish: 90% Pay At Risk 10% Base Salary 39% Annual Bonus 51% Equity Awards 4 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL Voting and Solicitation of Proxies SOLICITATION OF PROXIES A proxy is being solicited by our Board of Directors for use at the Annual Meeting. The close of business on April 11, 2022 is the record date for determining the record holders of our Class A Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share, entitled to notice of and to vote at the Annual Meeting and any adjournment or postponement thereof. Holders of our non-voting Class B Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share, are not entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof. As of April 11, 2022, we had outstanding 40,707,144 shares of our Class A Common Stock, with each of such shares entitled to one vote, and 608,378,412 shares of our non-voting Class B Common Stock (together with our Class A Common Stock, our Common Stock). INTERNET AVAILABILITY OF PROXY MATERIALS In accordance with SEC rules, instead of mailing to stockholders a printed copy of our proxy statement, annual report and accompanying letter to stockholders (the proxy materials), we intend to mail to stockholders a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials (the Notice of Internet Availability), which advises that the proxy materials are available on the Internet. We intend to commence our distribution of the Notice of Internet Availability on or about April 20, 2022. Stockholders receiving a Notice of Internet Availability by mail will not receive a printed copy of proxy materials, unless they so request. Instead, the Notice of Internet Availability will instruct stockholders as to how they may access and review the proxy materials on the Internet. Stockholders who receive a Notice of Internet Availability by mail who would like to receive a printed copy of our proxy materials, including a proxy card or voting instruction card, should follow the instructions for requesting these materials included in the Notice of Internet Availability. Stockholders who currently receive printed copies of proxy materials who would like to receive future copies of these documents electronically instead of by mail should follow the instructions for requesting electronic delivery set forth in the Other Matters section of this proxy statement. SUBMISSION OF PROXIES Each of Robert M. Bakish, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Christa A. DAlimonte, our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (the proxy holders), individually and with the power to appoint his or her substitute, has been designated by our Board of Directors to vote the shares represented by proxy at the Annual Meeting. They will vote the shares represented by each valid and timely received proxy in accordance with the stockholders instructions, or if no instructions are specified, in accordance with the recommendations of the Board as described in this proxy statement. If any other matter properly comes before the Annual Meeting, the proxy holders will vote on that matter in their discretion. Holders of record of our Class A Common Stock as of April 11, 2022 may submit a proxy in the following ways: • By Internet: Holders of record may access www.proxyvote.com and follow the online instructions. The Internet proxy must be received no later than 11:59 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 7, 2022. You will need the control number from your Notice of Internet Availability (or, if you received a printed copy of the proxy materials, the proxy card) when you access the website. • By Telephone: Holders of record living in the United States or Canada may use any touch-tone telephone to call 1-800-690-6903 and follow the recorded instructions. The telephone proxy must be received no later than 11:59 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 7, 2022. You will need the control number from your Notice of Internet Availability (or, if you received a printed copy of the proxy materials, the proxy card) when you call. • By Mail: Holders of record who received a printed copy of the proxy materials may complete, sign and date the proxy card and return it in the envelope provided, so that it is received prior to the Annual Meeting. Beneficial holders (defined below) will receive voting materials, including instructions on how to vote, directly from their broker or other nominee as the holder of record. Shares Held in our 401(k) Plan. Voting instructions relating to shares of our Class A Common Stock held in our 401(k) plan must be received no later than 11:59 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 5, 2022, so that the trustees of the plan 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 5 VOTING AND SOLICITATION OF PROXIES (who vote the shares on behalf of the respective plan participants) have adequate time to tabulate the voting instructions. Shares held in the 401(k) plan that are not voted or for which the trustees do not receive timely voting instructions will be voted by the trustees in the same proportion as the shares held in the plan that are timely voted. Voting Other than by Proxy. While we encourage holders of our Class A Common Stock to vote by proxy, holders of our Class A Common Stock (other than shares held in the 401(k) plan) also have the option of voting their shares during the Annual Meeting by following the instructions on the Annual Meeting website once they enter the meeting. Some holders of our Class A Common Stock hold their shares in street name through a broker or other nominee and are therefore known as beneficial holders. Beneficial holders should follow the voting instructions provided to them by their broker or other nominee in order to vote during the Annual Meeting.REVOCATION OF PROXIES A proxy may be revoked before the voting deadline (i) by sending written notice to Proxy Services, P.O. Box 9111, Farmingdale, NY 11735-9543, (ii) by timely submission (including telephonic or Internet submission as described above) of a proxy bearing a later date than the proxy being revoked or (iii) by voting during the Annual Meeting. Revocations made by telephone or through the Internet must be received by 11:59 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 7, 2022. Beneficial holders should follow the voting instructions provided to them by their broker or other nominee in order to revoke their proxy or change their vote. Shares Held in our 401(k) Plan. Voting instructions relating to shares of our Class A Common Stock held in our 401(k) plan may be revoked prior to 11:59 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 5, 2022, by timely submission (including telephonic or Internet submission as described above) of revocation or of voting instructions bearing a later date than the voting instructions being revoked to Proxy Services, P.O. Box 9111, Farmingdale, NY 11735-9543. QUORUM Under our Amended and Restated Bylaws, the holders of a majority of the aggregate voting power of our Class A Common Stock outstanding on the record date, present in person or represented by proxy at the Annual Meeting, will constitute a quorum. Abstentions and broker non-votes will be treated as present for purposes of determining the presence of a quorum. MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED AT THE ANNUAL MEETING The principal business of the Annual Meeting will be the consideration of the following matters: 1. The election of each of the 12 nominated directors; 2. The ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to serve as our independent registered public accounting firm (independent auditor) for fiscal year 2022; and 3. A stockholder proposal requesting that our Board of Directors take steps to reduce the threshold at which Company stockholders may call a special meeting, if properly presented at the Annual Meeting. The Board recommends a vote FOR matters 1 and 2, and AGAINST matter 3. The affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the aggregate voting power of our Class A Common Stock entitled to vote and present in person or represented by proxy at the Annual Meeting (majority vote) is required to elect each of the 12 nominated directors and to determine Items 2 and 3 above. An abstention with respect to any matter will have the effect of a vote against such matter. Under the Nasdaq listing standards, a broker or other nominee holding shares of our Class A Common Stock on behalf of a beneficial holder may not be permitted to exercise voting discretion with respect to some matters to be acted upon at stockholders meetings. Therefore, if a beneficial holder does not give the broker or nominee specific voting instructions, the holders shares may not be voted on those matters and a broker non-vote will occur. Under the Nasdaq listing standards, brokers or nominees may vote on Item 2, but not on Items 1 and 3, if they do not receive instructions from the beneficial holder of the shares held in street name. A broker non-vote is not treated as a vote on, and will therefore have no effect on the voting results for, Items 1 and 3. 6 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL VOTING AND SOLICITATION OF PROXIES As of April 11, 2022, National Amusements, Inc. (National Amusements) beneficially owned, directly and indirectly through a wholly-owned subsidiary, approximately 77.4% of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and approximately 9.7% of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. Shari Redstone, Chairperson, Chief Executive Officer and President of National Amusements, is our non-executive Board Chair. National Amusements has advised us that it intends to vote all of its shares of our Class A Common Stock in accordance with the recommendations of the Board on Items 1, 2 and 3. Such action by National Amusements will be sufficient to constitute a quorum and to determine the outcomes of Items 1, 2 and 3 in accordance with the Boards recommendations. HOW TO SUBMIT QUESTIONS Holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may submit questions in advance of the meeting, from 9:00 a.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on May 30, 2022 until 5:00 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 3, 2022, by visiting www.proxyvote.com, entering their 16-digit control number and following the instructions. Holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may also submit questions during the meeting and will find instructions for doing so on the Annual Meeting website once they enter the meeting. COST OF PROXY SOLICITATION AND INSPECTOR OF ELECTION We will pay the cost of the solicitation of proxies, including the preparation, printing and mailing of the Notice of Internet Availability and the proxy materials. We will furnish copies of the Notice of Internet Availability and, if requested, the proxy materials to banks, brokers, fiduciaries and custodians that hold shares on behalf of beneficial holders so that they may forward the materials to the beneficial holders. American Election Services, LLC will serve as the independent inspector of election for the Annual Meeting. MAILING ADDRESS Our mailing address is 1515 Broadway, New York, NY 10036-5794. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 7 Corporate Governance Our corporate governance practices are established and reviewed by our Board of Directors. The Board, with assistance from its Nominating and Governance Committee, regularly assesses our governance practices in light of legal and regulatory requirements, input from our stakeholders and governance best practices. In several areas, our practices go beyond the requirements of the Nasdaq listing standards. For example, despite being a controlled company (i.e., a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual or another company), we have a majority of independent directors on our Board and have an independent Compensation Committee and an independent Nominating and Governance Committee (along with an independent Audit Committee), which are not required for controlled companies under the Nasdaq listing standards. Our principal governance documents are as follows: • Corporate Governance Guidelines • Board Committee Charters: • Audit Committee Charter • Compensation Committee Charter • Nominating and Governance Committee Charter • Global Business Conduct Statement • Supplemental Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers These documents are available on the Investors—Corporate Governance & ESG page of our website at ir.paramount.com, and copies of these documents may be requested by writing to Investor Relations, Paramount Global, 1515 Broadway, New York, New York 10036. We encourage our stockholders to read these documents, as we believe they illustrate our commitment to good governance practices. Certain key provisions of these documents are summarized below. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES Our Corporate Governance Guidelines (the Guidelines) set forth our corporate governance principles and practices on a variety of topics, including the responsibilities, composition and functioning of the Board, director qualifications and the roles of the Board Committees. The Guidelines are periodically reviewed and updated as needed. The Guidelines provide, among other things, that: • A majority of the members of the Board must be independent of the Company, as independence is determined under the Nasdaq listing standards and the standards set forth in the Guidelines; • Each of our Committees must be comprised entirely of independent directors; • Separate executive sessions of the non-management directors and independent directors must be held a minimum number of times each year; • The Board, acting on the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, will determine whether a director candidates service on more than three other public company boards of directors is consistent with service on our Board; • Director compensation will be established in light of the policies set forth in the Guidelines; • Within three years of joining the Board, directors are expected to own shares of our Common Stock having a market value of at least five times the annual cash retainer paid to them, in accordance with the Guidelines; • Director tenure and retirement will be considered on a case-by-case basis depending on factors such as the directors age, experience, qualifications, performance and history of service on the Board; • Each of the Board and its Committees will hold an annual self-evaluation to assess its effectiveness; and • The Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee will together review, at least annually, management succession planning and report to the non-management directors on these reviews. 8 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEE CHARTERS Each standing Board Committee operates under a written charter that has been adopted by the Board. We have three standing Committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee. The Committee charters set forth the purpose, objectives and responsibilities of the respective Committee and discuss matters such as Committee membership requirements, number of meetings and the setting of meeting agendas. The charters are required to be assessed annually, in accordance with the Guidelines, and are updated as needed. More information on the Committees, their respective roles and responsibilities and their charters can be found under Our Board of Directors — Board Committees. GLOBAL BUSINESS CONDUCT STATEMENT Our Global Business Conduct Statement (BCS) sets forth our standards for ethical conduct required of all of our directors and employees. The BCS is available on the Investors—Corporate Governance & ESG page of our website at ir.paramount.com and on our intranet sites. As part of our compliance and ethics program, we distribute the BCS to our employees and directors and administer an online BCS training program. Directors and full-time employees are required to certify as to their compliance with the BCS and, on an ongoing basis, disclose any potential conflicts of interest. The BCS addresses, among other things, topics such as: • Compliance with laws, rules and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • Conflicts of interest, including the disclosure of potential conflicts to the Company; • Confidentiality, insider information and trading, and fair disclosure; • Financial accounting and improper payments; • Our commitment to providing equal employment opportunities and a discrimination- and harassment-free workplace environment; • Fair dealing and relations with competitors, customers and suppliers; • Health, safety and the environment; and • Political contributions and payments. The BCS provides numerous avenues for employees to report violations of the BCS or matters of concern, whether anonymously or with attribution. These avenues include a telephone hotline, a website and direct communication with our compliance officers and lawyers. The BCS also provides that we will protect anyone who makes a good faith report of a violation of the BCS and that retaliation against an employee who makes a good faith report will not be tolerated. Waivers of the BCS for our executive officers or directors will be disclosed on our website at ir.paramount.com or by Form 8-K filed with the SEC. SUPPLEMENTAL CODE OF ETHICS FOR SENIOR FINANCIAL OFFICERS The Supplemental Code of Ethics is applicable to our President and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and our Chief Accounting Officer. The Supplemental Code of Ethics addresses matters specific to those senior financial positions in the Company, including responsibility for the disclosures made in our filings with the SEC, reporting obligations with respect to certain matters and a general obligation to promote honest and ethical conduct within the Company. The senior financial officers are also required to comply with the BCS. Amendments to or waivers of the Supplemental Code of Ethics for these officers will be disclosed on our website at ir.paramount.com or by Form 8-K filed with the SEC. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 9 Our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Strategy Paramount is committed to responsible and sustainable business practices, which strengthen our ability to innovate and better serve our partners, audiences and shareholders. We are building our environmental, social and governance (ESG) strategy and unifying our messages, with the goal of transparently communicating about our most material ESG impacts and initiatives. We are committed to implementing and tracking progress against goals that will position us as a leader in ESG and sustainability. This commitment informs our work to integrate ESG into the way we do business and better understand our ESG impacts as a company and across our global brands. HOW WE MANAGE ESG Our commitment to ESG starts at the top, with our Board of Directors and senior leadership. The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board has direct oversight of our handling of ESG matters. We have assembled a team dedicated to driving our ESG strategy forward and overseeing our annual reporting and responses to ESG inquiries and assessments. We have prioritized transparency and disclosure, particularly of our most material impacts. Our ESG strategy consists of three pillars: On-Screen Content and Social Impact; Workforce and Culture; and Sustainable Production and Operations. Each of these pillars captures important parts of our business and the way we operate. As we develop and publish ESG goals in each area, we will continue to ensure the goals are relevant to our business, audiences and shareholders while being ambitious and proactive. Board ESG Steering Committee & Working Groups Nominating and Governance Committee ESG Council Sustainable Production and Operations On-Screen Content and Social Impact Workforce and Culture ESG Team OUR ESG COMMUNICATIONS In 2020, we conducted and published the results of our first Company-wide ESG materiality assessment to identify the most important risks and opportunities across our business globally. The results of this ESG materiality assessment informed our ESG strategy, which we also launched in 2020 as part of our first annual comprehensive ESG Report. In that report, we provided the public with more detail about our commitment and approach to managing ESG strategically across the Company. Our materiality assessment and ESG Report are available on our website at www.paramount.com/sustainability. In 2021, we continued to make diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging cornerstones of our culture and business. As part of our efforts to build a culture of transparency and accountability, we reported on gender and ethnic diversity across all levels of our organization. More information about these efforts is available on our website at www.paramount.com/inclusion. We also continued to develop ambitious, measurable and time-bound ESG goals that align with the future of our business and the unique power of our Company and its brands. We published an update to our ESG Report, sharing qualitative and quantitative data across our most relevant topic areas, including diversity and inclusion, our culture, and our efforts to elevate the importance of sustainable production across the industry. In 2022, we are driving progress on our newly published company-wide ESG goals. We are tracking against key metrics and developing additional targets to integrate these goals into our brand- and division-level business priorities. These goals and targets will help us to further sharpen our focus and drive progress on what matters most to our business. We are continuing to report transparently on our most material topics and progress against our goals, including our climate change-related disclosures and our approach to understanding and developing a plan to mitigate any impacts from climate change on or from our Company. 10 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL Our Board of Directors Our Board is currently comprised of 12 members: Robert M. Bakish, Candace K. Beinecke, Barbara M. Byrne, Linda M. Griego, Robert N. Klieger, Judith A. McHale, Ronald L. Nelson, Charles E. Phillips, Jr., Shari E. Redstone, Susan Schuman, Nicole Seligman and Frederick O. Terrell. MEETINGS OF THE BOARD During 2021, the Board held 11 meetings, and each incumbent director attended at least 75% of the meetings of the Board and Board Committees on which such director served. In addition to Board and Committee meetings, directors are expected to attend the Annual Meeting and all of the directors who stood for election in 2021 attended our 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. In accordance with the Guidelines and, with respect to the independent director sessions, the Nasdaq listing standards, the non-management directors meet separately without directors who are Company employees, and the independent directors meet separately without directors who are not independent as determined by the Board – in each case, at least two times each year and at such other times as they deem appropriate. The independent Chair of the Nominating and Governance Committee presides at meetings of the independent directors. During 2021, the non-management directors held four executive sessions, and the independent directors held four separate executive sessions. DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE Our Guidelines provide that a majority of our directors must be independent of the Company, as independence is defined in the Nasdaq listing standards and in the Guidelines. The Nasdaq listing standards set forth six bright-line tests that require a finding that a director is not independent if the director fails any of the tests. A Paramount director will not be independent if any of the following relationships exist: • The director is, or has been within the last three years, an employee of Paramount; • A family member of the director is, or has been within the last three years, an executive officer of Paramount; • The director has received, or a family member of the director has received, during any 12-month period within the last three years, more than $120,000 in compensation from Paramount, other than compensation for Board or Committee service, compensation paid to a family member of the director who is an employee (other than an executive officer) of Paramount, or benefits under a tax-qualified retirement plan, or non-discretionary compensation; • The director is, or has a family member who is, a current partner of our outside auditor, or was a partner or employee of our outside auditor who worked on Paramounts audit at any time during any of the past three years; • The director is, or has a family member who is, employed as an executive officer of another entity where at any time during the past three years any of the executive officers of Paramount have served on the compensation committee of such other entity; or • The director is, or has a family member who is, a partner in, or a controlling shareholder or an executive officer of, any organization to which Paramount made, or from which Paramount received, payments for property or services in the current or any of the past three fiscal years that exceed 5% of the recipients consolidated gross revenues for that year, or $200,000, whichever is more, other than payments arising solely from investments in Paramounts securities or payments under non-discretionary charitable contribution matching programs. For this purpose, family member means the directors spouse, parents, children (other than stepchildren who do not reside in the directors home) and siblings, whether by blood, marriage or adoption, or anyone residing in the directors home (other than domestic employees). In addition, the Nasdaq listing standards provide that a director is not independent unless the Board affirmatively determines that the director has no relationship that would impair his or her independence, which we refer to as a material relationship. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 11 OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Guidelines set forth categorical standards to assist the Board in determining what constitutes a material relationship with the Company. Generally, under these categorical standards, the following relationships are deemed not to be material: • The types of relationships identified by the Nasdaq listing standards bright-line tests, if they occurred more than five years ago (the Board will review any such relationship if it occurred more than three but fewer than five years ago); • A relationship whereby the director has received, or a family member of the director has received for service as an executive officer, $120,000 or less in direct compensation from us during any 12-month period within the last three years, absent other circumstances; and • A relationship where the director is an executive officer or employee, or an immediate family member of the director is an executive officer, of the following: (i) a company that made payments to, or received payments from, us for property or services in an amount that, in each of the last three fiscal years, is less than 2% of such companys annual consolidated gross revenues; (ii) a company that is either indebted to us or a creditor of ours in an amount that is less than 2% of such companys total consolidated assets; and (iii) a tax-exempt organization that received contributions from us in the prior fiscal year in an amount less than the greater of $1,000,000 or 2% of that organizations consolidated gross revenues. For relationships that exceed the thresholds in (ii) and (iii) described above, the determination of whether the relationship is material or not, and therefore whether the director would be independent or not, is made by the directors who are independent. In addition, the Guidelines state that, generally, the types of relationships not addressed by the Nasdaq listing standards or described in the Guidelines will not, by themselves, cause an otherwise independent director to be considered not independent. However, the Board may determine that a director is not independent for any reason it deems appropriate. In April 2022, the Nominating and Governance Committee reviewed the independence of our 12 directors, all of whom are nominees standing for election at the Annual Meeting, to determine its recommendation regarding which of them meet the independence standards outlined above. The Board, based on its review and the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, determined that nine of the 12 directors are independent. The independent directors are Mses. Beinecke, Byrne, Griego, McHale, Schuman and Seligman and Messrs. Nelson, Phillips and Terrell. During its review, in determining that the directors named above are independent, the Board considered that we have, in the ordinary course of business, during the past three years, sold products and services to, and/or purchased products and services from, companies and other entities, of which certain directors are executive officers or principals, and made contributions to a tax-exempt organization of which a directors immediate family member is an executive officer; the Board determined that all of these transactions met the threshold for relationships deemed to be immaterial under the Guidelines. BOARD LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE Our Board of Directors is currently comprised of the following: • A non-executive Chair of the Board; • Our President and Chief Executive Officer; and • 10 other directors, nine of whom are independent. In addition to having a majority independent Board, the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees are composed entirely of independent directors. In support of the independent oversight of management, the non-management directors and, separately, the independent directors routinely hold executive sessions without management present, and Board members have regular access to management across the Company between meetings. Our Non-Executive Chair of the Board, Shari E. Redstone, presides at all meetings of the Board. Under the Guidelines, her responsibilities also include, together with the Chief Executive Officer and the independent Chair of the Nominating and Governance Committee, developing and approving agendas for Board meetings. The Board believes that Ms. Redstones role appropriately reflects both her breadth of experience in the entertainment industry and her ownership position in and role at National Amusements. 12 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD RISK OVERSIGHT Board of Directors Our Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the oversight of our risk management processes. The Board carries out its oversight responsibility directly and through the delegation to its Committees of responsibilities related to the oversight of certain risks. Committees of the Board Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing our processes and policies with respect to risk assessment, risk management and risk acceptance and receives reports from our Chief Audit Executive and Chief Accounting Officer on the Companys strategic risk management program. The Committee regularly discusses risks as they relate to its review of our financial statements, the evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and the performance of the internal audit function, among other responsibilities set forth in the Committees charter. The Audit Committee receives regular reports: • from our Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Accounting Officer on the integrity of internal control over financial reporting; • from our Chief Technology Officer and our Chief Information Security Officer on our information security program and the management of cybersecurity risk; Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee adopts and periodically assesses the Companys compensation philosophy, strategy and principles, and monitors risks associated with the design and administration, of our performance-based and other compensation programs, to promote an environment that does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risk-taking by our employees. The Committee also reviews risks related to human capital resources, including pay equity, management succession planning (in conjunction with the Nominating and Governance Committee) and the depth of our senior management. Nominating and Governance Committee The Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for the review of the following risk management processes at the Company: business continuity planning, disaster recovery, crisis management, management succession planning (in conjunction with the Compensation Committee), significant issues impacting our culture and reputation and the Companys handling of ESG matters. The Committee also oversees risk as it relates to monitoring developments in law and practice with respect to our corporate governance processes and in reviewing related person transactions. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 13 OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS • from our Chief Audit Executive on internal audit activities and our internal audit plan for the upcoming fiscal year, the scope of which is to determine the adequacy and function of our risk management, control and governance processes; • from our General Counsel on employee relations and investigations and our insurance program; and • from our Chief Compliance Officer on compliance activities. For additional information on the Committees functions, see Board Committees. Each of these Committees reports regularly to the Board on these risk-related matters, among other items within its purview. On a regular basis, the Board engages in discussions (which include both internal and external experts) that assist the Board and management in preparing and implementing strategic initiatives. The Board receives regular reports from management that include matters affecting our risk profile, including operations reports from the Chief Executive Officer and from division heads, all of which include strategic and operational risks; reports from the Chief Financial Officer on financial results and projections, credit and liquidity risks and investor relations matters; and reports from the General Counsel on legal and regulatory risk and material litigation. Outside of formal meetings, Board members have regular access to executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, the General Counsel and the Chief People Officer. The Committee and management reports and real-time management access collectively provide the Board with integrated insight on our management of risks. INFORMATION SECURITY AND CYBERSECURITY The Audit Committee has oversight of our processes and policies with respect to information security and cybersecurity and, as described above, receives regular reports from the Chief Technology Officer and Chief Information Security Officer. We also maintain a Cyber Liability insurance program. Additional information about our information security program and the management of cybersecurity risk is available in our ESG Report on our website at www.paramount.com/sustainability. 14 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD COMMITTEES The following chart sets forth the membership of each standing Board Committee as of the date of this proxy statement. The Board reviews and determines the membership of the Committees at least annually. Committee Members Audit Committee Barbara M. Byrne, Chair Judith A. McHale Ronald L. Nelson Frederick O. Terrell Compensation Committee Judith A. McHale, Chair Linda M. Griego Ronald L. Nelson Nominating and Governance Committee Nicole Seligman, Chair Candace K. Beinecke Charles E. Phillips, Jr. Susan Schuman During 2021, the Audit Committee held nine meetings, the Compensation Committee held seven meetings and the Nominating and Governance Committee held six meetings. Information about these Committees, including their respective roles and responsibilities and charters, is set forth below. Audit Committee The Audit Committee Charter provides that the Audit Committee will be comprised of at least three members, except that the Committee is deemed to be properly constituted with at least two members in the event of a vacancy until the Board fills the vacancy. The Charter also provides that all of the members on the Committee must be independent directors. The Committee must have at least one audit committee financial expert and one member who is financially sophisticated (each as described below), and all Committee members must be able to read and understand fundamental financial statements. The Committee holds at least five regular meetings each year, and it regularly meets separately at these meetings with the independent auditor, our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Accounting Officer, our General Counsel, our Chief Compliance Officer and our Chief Audit Executive. The Committee has the power to delegate its authority and duties to subcommittees or individual members of the Committee, as well as to retain outside advisors, in its sole discretion. The Committee has the sole authority to retain and terminate any such advisors and to review and approve such advisors fees and other retention terms. The Committee is responsible for the following, among other things: • Reviewing our processes and policies with respect to risk assessment, risk management and risk acceptance; • The appointment, retention, termination, compensation and oversight of our independent auditor, including reviewing with the independent auditor and management the scope of the audit plan and audit fees; • Reviewing our financial statements and related disclosures, including with respect to internal control over financial reporting; • Oversight of our internal audit function; • Oversight of our process and policies with respect to information security and cybersecurity; and • Oversight of our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. For additional information on the Committees role and its oversight of the independent auditor during 2021, see Report of the Audit Committee. Audit Committee Financial Experts. The Board has determined that each member of the Audit Committee, including Ms. Byrne, the Chair of the Audit Committee, is financially sophisticated under Nasdaq listing standards and qualifies as an audit committee financial expert as that term is defined in the regulations promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 15 OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee Charter provides that the Compensation Committee will be comprised of at least three members, except that the Committee is deemed to be properly constituted with at least two members in the event of a vacancy until the Board fills the vacancy. The Charter also provides that all of the members on the Committee must be independent directors and also non-employee directors pursuant to Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). The Committee holds at least four regular meetings each year, and it regularly meets separately at these meetings with its independent compensation consultant and our Chief People Officer. The Committee has the power to delegate its authority and duties to subcommittees or individual members of the Committee, as well as to retain a compensation consultant and other outside advisors, as it deems appropriate and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Committee has the sole authority to retain and terminate any such advisors and to review and approve such advisors fees and other retention terms. The Committee is responsible for the following, among other things:• Adopting and periodically reviewing our compensation philosophy, strategy and principles regarding the design and administration of our compensation programs; • Reviewing and approving the total compensation packages and the material terms of any new employment, consulting, supplemental retirement and severance arrangements for our executive officers and other senior executives identified by the Committee at least annually after consultation with members of management (collectively, the specified employees); • Overseeing the administration of our incentive compensation plans and equity-based compensation plans; • Reviewing key management succession planning (in conjunction with the Nominating and Governance Committee) as contemplated by the Guidelines; and • Overseeing periodic risk assessments of our compensation programs. Consideration and Determination of Executive Compensation. The Compensation Committee reviews all components of the specified employees compensation, including base salary, annual and long-term incentives and other compensatory arrangements. In approving compensation for the specified employees, the Committee considers the input and recommendations of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People Officer and any other executive officers to whom those executives report. As described below, the Compensation Committee also considers the input from its independent compensation consultant in making decisions on compensation matters. The Committee reviews and approves goals and objectives relevant to the compensation of the President and Chief Executive Officer and, together with the Nominating and Governance Committee, annually evaluates his performance in light of those goals and objectives, after considering the input of the non-management directors. The results of this evaluation are then reported to the non-management directors. The Compensation Committee sets the compensation of our President and Chief Executive Officer, taking this evaluation into account, and reports to the Board on this process. As authorized by its Charter, the Committee has delegated to the President and Chief Executive Officer limited authority to grant long-term incentive awards under our long-term incentive plan to executives who are not specified employees, in connection with their hiring, promotion or contract renewal and to modify certain terms of outstanding equity grants in some post-termination scenarios, as discussed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section. Any use of this delegated authority is reported to the Committee at its next regularly-scheduled meeting. Our processes and procedures for the consideration of executive compensation and the role of our executive officers in determining or recommending the amount or form of executive compensation are more fully described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section. The Committee currently retains independent compensation consulting firm ClearBridge Compensation Group LLC (ClearBridge) to provide expert compensation advice to the Committee in its review of senior executive and other employees compensation. The Committee has a policy providing that the independent compensation consulting firm will not be considered as a provider of any other services to us and ClearBridge does not perform any such services. In furtherance of the Committees review of senior executive compensation, the independent consultant examines the compensation practices at companies with which we compete for senior executive talent, including those companies engaged in similar business activities and other publicly traded U.S. companies, and provides other analysis, as more fully described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section. In April 2022, the Compensation Committee assessed the independence of ClearBridge and determined that the firms work for the Committee did not raise any conflicts of interest. 16 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Nominating and Governance Committee The Nominating and Governance Committees Charter provides that the Nominating and Governance Committee will be comprised of at least three members, except that the Committee is deemed to be properly constituted with at least two members in the event of a vacancy until the Board fills the vacancy. The Charter also provides that all of the members on the Committee must be independent directors. The Committee holds at least three regular meetings each year. The Committee has the power to delegate its authority and duties to subcommittees or individual members of the Committee, as well as to retain outside advisors, in its sole discretion. The Committee has the sole authority to retain and terminate any such advisors and to review and approve such advisors fees and other retention terms. The Committee is responsible for the following, among other things: • Identifying and recommending to the Board nominees for election to the Board and reviewing the composition of the Board as part of this process; • Overseeing all aspects of our corporate governance initiatives, including regular assessments of our principal governance documents; • Establishing criteria and processes for the annual self-evaluations of the Board and its Committees; • Making recommendations to the Board on director compensation matters; • Monitoring developments in the law and practice of corporate governance; • Developing and recommending items for Board meeting agendas; • Reviewing key management succession planning (in conjunction with the Compensation Committee) as contemplated by the Guidelines; • Reviewing transactions between us and related persons; • Overseeing and monitoring significant issues impacting our culture and reputation, as well as our handling of ESG matters; and • Reviewing the following risk management processes and policies at the Company: business continuity planning, disaster recovery and crisis management. Consideration and Determination of Director Compensation. The Committee annually reviews and recommends for the Boards consideration the form and amount of compensation for Outside Directors, who are directors who are not employees of us or any of our subsidiaries. Only Outside Directors are eligible to receive compensation for serving on the Board, as more fully described in Director Compensation. In accordance with the Guidelines and its Charter, the Committee is guided by three principles in its review of Outside Director compensation: Outside Directors should be fairly compensated for the services they provide to us, taking into account, among other things, the size and complexity of our business and compensation paid to directors of comparable companies; Outside Directors interests should be aligned with the interests of stockholders; and Outside Directors compensation should be easy for stockholders to understand. Final director compensation determinations are made by the Board. 2022 Director Nomination Process. In connection with the 2022 director nomination process, the Nominating and Governance Committee reviewed the current composition of the Board in light of the considerations set forth in its Charter and our Guidelines related to Board composition. In addition, the Committee considered input received from the Board members on Board composition, the directors qualifications and any special circumstances that the Committee deemed to be important in its determination. After taking these considerations into account, the Committee determined to recommend to the Board that each of our current directors, as set forth in Item 1 — Election of Directors, be nominated to stand for election at the 2022 Annual Meeting. Board Diversity. The Committee considers diversity as part of its review of the composition of the Board. The Committee considers diversity to be a broadly defined concept that takes into account professional experience, gender and ethnicity, among other characteristics. Multiple industries and areas of expertise are represented on the Board, including entertainment and media, banking, legal, technology, information security and management consulting. Additionally, distinguished contributors to governmental and not-for-profit organizations also serve on the Board. Multiple professions are represented among the directors, including current and past experience as principal executive officers, principal financial officers, attorneys, high-ranking government officials, entrepreneurs and television and film executives. The Committee assesses the effectiveness of its consideration of diversity as part of its annual nomination process when it reviews the composition of the Board as a whole. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 17 OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS The following table sets forth certain diversity statistics relating to our Board members, as required by Nasdaq listing standards: Board Diversity Matrix (As of April 15, 2022) Total Number of Directors 12 Female Male Non-Binary Did Not Disclose Gender Part I: Gender Identity Directors 7 5 0 0 Part II: Demographic Background African American or Black 0 2 0 0 Alaskan Native or Native American 0 0 0 0 Asian 0 0 0 0 Hispanic or Latinx 1 0 0 0 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 0 0 0 0 White 6 3 0 0 Two or More Races or Ethnicities 0 0 0 0 LGBTQ+ 1 1 0 0 Did Not Disclose Demographic Background 0 0 0 0 Stockholder Recommendations for Director. The Committee will consider candidates for director recommended by our stockholders. All recommendations by stockholders for potential director candidates must include written materials with respect to the potential candidate and be sent to Christa A. DAlimonte, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Paramount Global, 1515 Broadway, New York, NY 10036-5794. Our Guidelines and Nominating and Governance Committee Charter set forth certain criteria for director qualifications and Board composition that stockholders should consider when making a recommendation. These criteria include an expectation that directors have substantial accomplishments in their professional backgrounds, are able to make independent, analytical inquiries, and exhibit practical wisdom and mature judgment. Our directors should also possess the highest personal and professional ethics, integrity and values and be committed to promoting the long-term interests of our stockholders. Director candidates recommended by stockholders who meet the director qualifications, which are described more fully in our Guidelines and Nominating and Governance Committee Charter, will be considered by the Chair of the Committee, who will present the information on the candidate to the entire Committee. Director candidates recommended by stockholders will be considered by the Committee in the same manner as any other candidate. STOCKHOLDER OUTREACH Our management, including through its investor relations program, conducts stockholder outreach throughout the year to inform our management and Board about the issues that matter most to stockholders. The stockholder outreach efforts include in person and virtual meetings between management and individual and group investors and management presentations at investor and industry conferences, including question-and-answer sessions, on a regular basis. The investor relations group also responds to retail investor email and telephone inquiries, providing access to our representatives and a forum for providing feedback. Our investor relations team, certain NEOs and/or other members of management and operating executives meet with our largest investors throughout the year, and management reports to the Board regularly on stockholder engagement efforts. COMMUNICATIONS WITH DIRECTORS Stockholders and other parties interested in contacting our non-management directors may send an email to nonmanagementdirectors@viacomcbs.com or write to Paramount Global, 1515 Broadway, New York, NY 10036-5794, Attention: Non-Management Directors – 52nd Floor. The non-management directors contact information is also available on the Investors—Shareholder Services, Alerts, & FAQs page of our website at ir.paramount.com. The non-management directors have approved the process for handling communications received in this manner. 18 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Stockholders should also use the email and mailing address for the non-management directors to send communications to the Board. The process for handling stockholder communications to the Board received in this manner has been approved by the independent directors of the Board. Correspondence relating to accounting or auditing matters will be handled in accordance with procedures established by the Audit Committee for such matters. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION None of the members of the Compensation Committee during fiscal year 2021 was, or has ever been, an officer or employee of the Company, and, during fiscal year 2021, no executive officer of the Company served on the board and/or compensation committee of any company that employed as an executive officer any member of our Board and/or Compensation Committee. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 19 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management The table below sets forth as of March 15, 2022 information concerning the beneficial ownership of our Class A and Class B Common Stock by (i) each current director and director nominee, (ii) each NEO and (iii) our current directors and executive officers as a group. Each person has sole voting and investment power over the shares reported, except as noted. Also set forth below is information concerning the beneficial ownership by each person, or group of affiliated persons, who is known by us to beneficially own more than 5% of our Class A Common Stock. As of March 15, 2022, there were 40,707,144 shares of our Class A Common Stock outstanding and 608,219,814 shares of our Class B Common Stock outstanding. Beneficial Ownership of Equity Securities Name Title of Security Number of Shares Percent of Class Robert M. Bakish Class A Common 0 0 Class B Common 1,691,424(1)(2)(3)(4) Candace K. Beinecke Class A Common 7,663(5) Class B Common 23,302(5) Barbara M. Byrne Class A Common 0 Class B Common 24,694(4) Naveen Chopra Class A Common 0 0 Class B Common 44,448 Christa A. DAlimonte Class A Common 0 0 Class B Common 137,475(1) Linda M. Griego Class A Common 0 0 Class B Common 43,848(5) Robert N. Klieger Class A Common 5,921(5) Class B Common 25,599(5) Doretha (DeDe) Lea Class A Common 0 0 Class B Common 109,082(1)(2)(3) Judith A. McHale Class A Common 2,778(5) Class B Common 26,443(5) Ronald L. Nelson Class A Common 0 0 Class B Common 32,190(5) Charles E. Phillips, Jr. Class A Common 374(5) Class B Common 79,063(5) Nancy Phillips Class A Common 0 0 Class B Common 24,178 Shari E. Redstone(6) Class A Common 30,167(5) Class B Common 452,874(4)(5) Susan Schuman Class A Common Class B Common 14,990(5) Nicole Seligman Class A Common 0 0 Class B Common 24,579(4)(5) Frederick O. Terrell Class A Common 5,359(5) Class B Common 19,984(5) Current directors and executive officers as a group (19 persons) Class A Common 52,262(5) Class B Common 2,879,578(1)(2)(3)(4)(5) 20 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT Beneficial Ownership of Equity Securities Name Title of Security Number of Shares Percent of Class National Amusements(7) 846 University Avenue Norwood, MA 02062 Class A Common Class B Common 31,500,087 31,365,426 77.4% 5.2% Mario J. Gabelli et al.(8) Class A Common 3,600,796 8.8% GAMCO Investors, Inc. One Corporate Center Rye, NY 10580-1435 Represents less than 1% of the outstanding shares of the class. (1) Includes the following shares of Class B Common Stock that the indicated person had the right to acquire on or within 60 days from March 15, 2022, through the exercise of stock options: Bakish, 1,155,882; DAlimonte, 89,490; Lea, 71,594; and our current directors and executive officers as a group, 1,378,697. (2) Includes the following shares held through our 401(k) plan as of March 15, 2022: Bakish, 2,893; Lea, 766; and our current directors and executive officers as a group, 4,199. (3) Includes the following Class B Common Stock phantom units credited pursuant to, as applicable, our supplemental 401(k) plans or bonus deferral plans as of March 15, 2022: Bakish, 40,642; Lea, 743; and our current directors and executive officers as a group, 41,550. Pursuant to the governing plans, the phantom common stock units are payable in cash following termination of service as an employee. (4) Includes the following number of shares of Class B Common Stock (a) owned by family members: Bakish, 163; and our current directors and executive officers as a group, 163; and (b) held in family trusts, as to which the indicated person has sole voting and investment power: Byrne, 1,384; Redstone, 61,948; Seligman, 798; and our current directors and executive officers as a group, 64,130. (5) Includes (a) the following Class A Common Stock phantom units and Class B Common Stock phantom units credited pursuant to the Director Deferred Compensation Plans (as defined below): Beinecke, 7,663 Class A and 8,312 Class B; Klieger, 5,921 Class A and 6,390 Class B; McHale, 2,778 Class A and 3,212 Class B; C. Phillips, 374 Class A and 414 Class B; Redstone, 30,167 Class A and 31,818 Class B; Terrell, 5,359 Class A and 5,890 Class B; and our current directors and executive officers as a group, 52,262 Class A and 56,036 Class B; and (b) the following shares of Class B Common Stock underlying vested Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) for which settlement has been deferred: Beinecke, 14,990; Griego, 34,375; Klieger, 19,209; McHale, 9,965; Nelson, 6,395; C. Phillips, 60,181; Redstone, 147,609; Schuman, 14,990; Seligman, 20,281; Terrell, 14,094; and our current directors and executive officers as a group, 342,089. Pursuant to the governing plans, the phantom common stock units are payable in cash and the RSUs are payable in shares of Class B Common Stock following termination of service as a director. (6) Ms. Redstone is a stockholder of National Amusements and has a minority indirect beneficial interest in the Companys Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock owned by National Amusements (and a wholly-owned subsidiary). (7) These shares are owned by National Amusements and a wholly-owned subsidiary. National Amusements is controlled by the Sumner M. Redstone National Amusements Part B General Trust (the General Trust), which owns 80% of the voting interest of National Amusements and acts by majority vote of seven voting trustees (subject to certain exceptions), including with respect to the National Amusements shares held by the General Trust. Ms. Redstone is one of the seven voting trustees for the General Trust and is one of two voting trustees who are beneficiaries of the General Trust. No member of our management or other member of our Board of Directors is a trustee of the General Trust. Based on information received from National Amusements, National Amusements has pledged to its lenders a portion of shares of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock owned directly or indirectly by National Amusements. As of March 15, 2022, the aggregate number of shares pledged by National Amusements to its lenders represented approximately 3.9% of the total outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. In addition, as of March 15, 2022, the amount of our Class A Common Stock that National Amusements directly or indirectly owned and that was not pledged by National Amusements to its lenders represented approximately 57.6% of the total outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock. (8) The information concerning Mario J. Gabelli et al. is based upon a Schedule 13D/A filed with the SEC on April 7, 2021. In addition to Mr. Gabelli, each of the following entities that Mr. Gabelli directly or indirectly controls, or for which he acts as chief investment officer, is a reporting person, with the following beneficial ownership of the reported shares as of April 7, 2021, on the Schedule 13D/A: Gabelli Funds, LLC (Gabelli Funds), 1,757,739; GAMCO Asset Management, Inc. (GAMCO), 1,673,153; Gabelli & Company Investment Advisers, Inc., 9,992; Gabelli Foundation, Inc., 16,000; MJG Associates, Inc., 16,000; GGCP, Inc. (GGCP), 16,500; GAMCO Investors, Inc. (GBL), 0; and Associated Capital Group, Inc. (AC), 5.000. Mr. Gabelli is deemed to beneficially own 8,400 shares as well as the shares owned beneficially by each of the foregoing reporting persons. AC, GBL and GGCP are deemed to beneficially own the shares owned beneficially by each of the foregoing reporting persons other than Mr. Gabelli and 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 21 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT the Foundation. Each of the reporting persons discloses that it has sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares it beneficially owns, except that: (a) GAMCO does not have the authority to vote 98,012 of the reported shares, (b) Gabelli Funds has sole dispositive and voting power with respect to the shares held by the Funds so long as the aggregate voting interest of all joint filers does not exceed 25% of their total voting interest in the Company and, in that event, the proxy voting committee of each Fund shall respectively vote that Funds shares, (c) at any time, the proxy voting committee of each such Fund may take and exercise in its sole discretion the entire voting power with respect to the shares held by such fund under special circumstances such as regulatory considerations, and (d) the power of Mr. Gabelli, AC, GBL and GGCP is indirect with respect to shares beneficially owned directly by other reporting persons. 22 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL Related Person Transactions REVIEW, APPROVAL OR RATIFICATION OF TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PERSONS The Board has a written policy whereby the Nominating and Governance Committee reviews and approves, ratifies or takes other actions it deems appropriate with respect to related person transactions, as defined under the rules of the SEC. Under the policy, the Committee shall approve only related person transactions that are in, or are not inconsistent with, the best interests of the Company and its stockholders, as the Committee determines in good faith. In its review, the Committee considers the importance of the transaction to the Company and the related person; the related persons relationship with the Company and interest in the transaction; the terms of the transaction, including the dollar amount involved; the impact on a directors independence if the transaction involves a director; the availability of other sources of comparable products or services; whether the transaction is on terms that are comparable to the terms available to an unrelated third party or to employees generally; and any other information the Committee deems appropriate. Any member of the Committee who is a related person with respect to a transaction under review may not participate in the review or vote respecting the transaction; however, that person may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Committee that considers the transaction. Under the policy, management is primarily responsible for determining whether a related person has a direct or indirect material interest in a transaction with the Company. The determination will be made after a review of information obtained from the related person and information available from our records. Our legal and controllers groups are responsible for establishing and maintaining policies and procedures to ensure implementation of the policy across the Company. TRANSACTIONS WITH NATIONAL AMUSEMENTS National Amusements licenses films in the ordinary course of business for its motion picture theaters from all major studios, including Paramount Pictures. Payments made to us in connection with these licenses for fiscal year 2021 amounted to approximately $2,505,423 and are continuing in fiscal year 2022 as a result of this ongoing relationship. National Amusements also licenses films from a number of unaffiliated companies, and Paramount Pictures expects to continue to license films to National Amusements on similar terms in the future. In addition, National Amusements and Paramount Pictures have had co-op advertising arrangements and occasionally engage in other ordinary course transactions (e.g., movie ticket purchases and various promotional activities) from time to time; Paramount Pictures did not pay National Amusements any amounts in connection with these arrangements in fiscal year 2021. We believe that the terms of these transactions between National Amusements and Paramount Pictures were no more or less favorable to Paramount Pictures than transactions between unaffiliated companies and National Amusements. OTHER TRANSACTIONS In November 1995, we entered into an agreement with GAMCO pursuant to which GAMCO manages certain assets for qualified U.S. pension plans sponsored by us. For 2021, we paid GAMCO approximately $234,372 for such investment management services. We believe that the terms of the agreement with GAMCO are no more or less favorable to us than we could have obtained from unrelated parties. Entities that are affiliated with GAMCO collectively own 3,600,796 shares of our Class A Common Stock, according to a Schedule 13D/A filed with the SEC on April 7, 2021 by such entities (the latest filing available), which shares, as of April 11, 2022, represented approximately 8.8% of the outstanding shares of the class. Matthew Jafar, the brother-in-law of Julia Phelps, our Executive Vice President, Chief Communications and Corporate Marketing Officer, is employed by us as Director of Global Consumer Insights. Mr. Jafar served in his position prior to Ms. Phelps appointment to her current role, and Ms. Phelps was not involved in Mr. Jafars hiring. Mr. Jafar has never served in Ms. Phelps reporting line, and Ms. Phelps is not involved with decisions regarding Mr. Jafars compensation. Mr. Jafar received compensation in 2021 in an amount consistent with the compensation paid to other employees at his level. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 23 Item 1 — Election of Directors The Board of Directors proposes the election of 12 directors, all of whom are current members of our Board. Each director elected at the Annual Meeting will hold office, in accordance with our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, until the next annual meeting or until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified. The Boards nominees for election are Robert M. Bakish, Candace K. Beinecke, Barbara M. Byrne, Linda M. Griego, Robert N. Klieger, Judith A. McHale, Ronald L. Nelson, Charles E. Phillips, Jr., Shari E. Redstone, Susan Schuman, Nicole Seligman and Frederick O. Terrell. All of the nominees were elected at our 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. For a description of certain arrangements relating to nominations of directors and the composition of the Board, see Our Board of Directors — Board Committees — Nominating and Governance Committee. If, for any reason, any of the director nominees becomes unavailable for election, the proxy holders may exercise discretion to vote for substitute nominees proposed by the Board. Each of the director nominees has indicated that he or she will be able to serve if elected and has agreed to do so. Each director nominee for our Board brings a diversity of skills and experiences to his or her service on the Board, as described below. SENIOR LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE ENTERTAINMENT/MEDIA EXPERTISE STRATEGIC PLANNING/ADVISORY EXPERTISE INTERNATIONAL EXPERTISE PUBLIC/PRIVATE COMPANY BOARD EXPERIENCE FINANCIAL EXPERTISE 11/12 Directors 8/12 Directors 12/12 Directors 10/12 Directors 10/12 Directors 7/12 Directors President and Chief Executive Officer, Director Age: 58 Director since: 2019 Committees: • None ROBERT M. BAKISH Robert M. Bakish has been our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board since December 2019. Mr. Bakish served as President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the board of Viacom Inc. (Viacom) from December 2016 until its merger with CBS Corporation (CBS) in December 2019, having served as Acting President and Chief Executive Officer of Viacom beginning in November 2016. Mr. Bakish joined Viacoms predecessor (Former Viacom) in 1997 and held positions throughout the organization, including as President and Chief Executive Officer of Viacom International Media Networks and its predecessor company, MTV Networks International (MTVNI), from 2007 to 2016; President of MTVNI; Executive Vice President, Operations and Viacom Enterprises; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, MTV Networks Advertising Sales; and Senior Vice President, Planning, Development and Technology. Before joining Former Viacom, Mr. Bakish was a partner with Booz Allen Hamilton in its Media and Entertainment practice. Mr. Bakish has served as a director of Avid Technology, Inc. since 2009. Mr. Bakish has extensive knowledge and a deep understanding of our business and the entertainment industry as our current President and Chief Executive Officer and through various leadership positions at Viacom spanning approximately 20 years, and has broad expertise overseeing global operations. 24 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL ITEM 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Director Age: 75 Director since: 2018 Committees: • Nominating and Governance Committee CANDACE K. BEINECKE Ms. Beinecke is the Senior Partner of Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, a New York law firm, and is a practicing partner in Hughes Hubbards corporate department. In 1999, Ms. Beinecke became the first woman to chair a major New York law firm. Ms. Beinecke also serves as the Lead Independent Trustee of Vornado Realty Trust and as Chairperson of the Boards of First Eagle Funds (a mutual fund family) and First Eagle Credit Opportunities Fund. She previously served on the boards of ALSTOM (a public French transport company), Rockefeller & Co., Inc. and Rockefeller Financial Services, Inc. As the long-time head of a top-ranked international law firm, Ms. Beinecke is well-recognized in the legal profession for her corporate governance and mergers and acquisitions expertise and brings to the Board extensive legal, governance, business and risk management experience. Ms. Beineckes breadth of director experience, which includes service as a lead trustee and chairperson, as well as service on other nominating and governance committees, a remuneration committee and an executive committee, gives her a deep understanding of public company governance. Director Age: 67 Director since: 2018 Committees: • Audit Committee (Chair) BARBARA M. BYRNE Ms. Byrne is the former Vice Chairman, Investment Banking at Barclays PLC. Ms. Byrne has served as a director of Hennessy Capital Investment Corp. V, Slam Corp. and Carta, Inc. since 2021. During her more than 35 years of financial services experience, Ms. Byrne served as team leader for some of Barclays most important multinational corporate clients and was the primary architect of several of Barclays marquee transactions. Widely recognized as a leading investment banker and strategic advisor, she is a member of various industry councils and participates as a forum leader on strategic issues and trends facing the financial services sector and global markets. With this experience, Ms. Byrne brings to the Board important business and financial expertise in its deliberations on complex transactions, risk management, strategy and other financial matters. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 25 ITEM 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Director Age: 74 Director since: 2007 Committees: • Compensation Committee LINDA M. GRIEGO Ms. Griego has served, since 1986, as President and Chief Executive Officer of Griego Enterprises, Inc., a business management company. For more than 20 years, she oversaw the operations of Engine Co. No. 28, a prominent restaurant in downtown Los Angeles that she founded in 1988. From 1990 to 2000, Ms. Griego held a number of government-related appointments, including Deputy Mayor of the City of Los Angeles, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Los Angeles Community Development Bank, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Rebuild LA, the agency created to jump-start inner-city economic development following the 1992 Los Angeles riots. She serves on the LA County Economic & Resiliency Task Force charged with economic recovery efforts related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Over the past two decades, she has also served on a number of government commissions and boards of directors of nonprofit organizations, including current service on the boards of the MLK Health and Wellness Community Development Corporation and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. Ms. Griego has served as a director of the American Funds (9 boards) since 2012 and served as a director of AECOM from 2005 to 2019. With the breadth of her leadership experience as a businesswoman, in the public sector through her multiple government appointments and extensive communitybased participation in Los Angeles, an area where we have a significant presence, and on multiple not-for-profit boards, Ms. Griego provides the Board with financial and business acumen, as well as public policy expertise as it relates to business practices. Ms. Griego is also an experienced director, including through service on other audit, compensation and organization, and nominating and governance committees, with demonstrated expertise in the application of sound corporate governance principles. Director Age: 50 Director since: 2017 Committees: • None ROBERT N. KLIEGER Mr. Klieger is a partner in the Los Angeles law firm Hueston Hennigan LLP. Mr. Kliegers practice focuses on complex civil litigation and counseling in the areas of entertainment and intellectual property. Mr. Klieger represents motion picture studios, broadcast and cable television networks, production companies, video game publishers and high net worth individuals in the media and entertainment space, as well as clients in other industries including apparel, aviation and venture capital. Prior to joining Hueston Hennigan, Mr. Klieger was a partner at Irell & Manella LLP and a founding partner at Kendall Brill & Klieger LLP. Before beginning his career in private practice, Mr. Klieger served as a law clerk to the Honorable Cynthia Holcomb Hall of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and the Honorable William Matthew Byrne, Jr. of the United States District Court for the Central District of California. Mr. Klieger is recognized as one of the most prominent attorneys in the entertainment industry, with a practice focused on complex civil litigation and counseling in the areas of media, entertainment and intellectual property and clients that include leading enterprises in television, film and digital media. With his exceptional legal acumen and distinguished reputation for his trial practice and counsel, Mr. Klieger brings to the Board legal and strategic expertise in matters germane to our businesses and complex business transactions. 26 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL ITEM 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Director Age: 75 Director since: 2019 Committees: • Audit Committee • Compensation Committee, Chair JUDITH A. MCHALE Ms. McHale is President and Chief Executive Officer of Cane Investments, LLC, a private investment company, and served as a member of the board of Viacom from August 2016 to December 2019. Prior to joining Cane Investments in 2011, Ms. McHale served as the Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs for the U.S. Department of State from 2009 to 2011. From 2004 to 2006, Ms. McHale served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Discovery Communications, Inc., the parent company of Discovery Channel, and served as its President and Chief Operating Officer from 1995 to 2004. In 2006, Ms. McHale worked with private equity firm Global Environment Fund to launch the GEF/Africa Growth Fund, an investment vehicle focused on supplying expansion capital to small and medium-sized enterprises that provide consumer goods and services in emerging African markets. She has served on the boards of Ralph Lauren Corporation since 2011 and Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. since 2013. She previously served on the boards of SeaWorld Entertainment, Inc., Host Hotel & Resorts, Inc., DigitalGlobe Inc., John Hancock Financial Services, Inc. and Potomac Electric Power Company. Ms. McHale has extensive experience leading a major media conglomerate with a background in operations and financial management, expertise in global affairs, experience in government affairs and extensive public company and corporate governance experience. Director Age: 69 Director since: 2019 Committees: • Audit Committee • Compensation Committee RONALD L. NELSON Mr. Nelson served on the board of Viacom from August 2016 to December 2019. Mr. Nelson served as Executive Chairman of the Board of Avis Budget Group, Inc. from 2016 to 2018 and later as a consultant to Avis Budget Group until May 2019. Mr. Nelson also served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Avis Budget Group from 2006 to 2015, and as Chief Operating Officer from 2010 to 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Nelson held several executive finance and operating roles, beginning in 2003 with Cendant Corporation, including as its Chief Financial Officer and President and a member of its board from 2003 to 2006. From 1994 to 2003, Mr. Nelson served as Co-Chief Operating Officer of DreamWorks SKG. From 1987 to 1994, Mr. Nelson was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and a director at Paramount Communications, Inc., formerly Gulf + Western Industries, Inc. Mr. Nelson has served on the boards of Hanesbrands Inc. since 2008 and as its Non-Executive Chairman since 2019, and Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Inc. since 2019. He previously served on the board of Convergys Corporation. Mr. Nelson has extensive experience as a chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief operating officer of major global companies, significant financial expertise, international business experience, public company and corporate governance experience and a long-standing background in the media industry. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 27 ITEM 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Director Age: 62 Director since: 2019 Committees: • Nominating and Governance Committee CHARLES E. PHILLIPS, JR. Mr. Phillips is a Co-founder and Managing Partner of Recognize, a technology investing and transformation company. Previously, he was Chief Executive Officer of Infor, Inc., a multi-billion dollar enterprise software company, from 2010 until 2019 and Chairman of Infor from 2019 until 2020. Mr. Phillips served on the board of Viacom from January 2006 to December 2019 and, prior to that, on the board of Former Viacom beginning in 2004. He was a President of Oracle Corporation from 2003 to 2010 and served as a member of its board of directors and executive management committee from 2004 to 2010. Prior to Oracle, Mr. Phillips was a managing director at Morgan Stanley in the Technology Group and served on its board of directors. He has served as a director of American Express Company and Compass, Inc. since 2020 and Oscar Health, Inc. since 2021, and serves on the boards of the Apollo Theater, the New York City Police Foundation and the Black Economic Alliance. He served on President Obamas Economic Recovery Board, led by Paul Volcker, and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Mr. Phillips has extensive experience as a senior executive in a large, multinational corporation, financial industry background and financial and analytical expertise, significant public company and corporate governance experience, expertise in technology issues and familiarity with issues facing media, new media and intellectual property-driven companies and a deep knowledge of our business. Non-Executive Chair Age: 67 Director since: 1994 Committees: • None SHARI E. REDSTONE Ms. Redstone has been a member of our Board since January 1994 and served on the Viacom board from January 2006 to December 2019. She has served as Non-Executive Chair of our Board since December 2019 and prior to that served as Non-Executive Vice Chair of the Board beginning in June 2005 and Non-Executive Vice Chair of the Viacom board beginning in January 2006. Ms. Redstone is Co-Founder and Managing Partner of Advancit Capital, an investment firm launched in 2011 that focuses on early stage companies at the intersection of media, entertainment and technology, with investments in over 75 companies. Ms. Redstone has been President of National Amusements since 2000 and Chief Executive Officer since 2020. She also serves on the National Amusements board as its Chairperson. Ms. Redstone serves on the Board of Trustees for the Paley Center for Media and is actively involved in charitable, civic and educational organizations. She is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Dana Farber Cancer Institute. She earned a BS from Tufts University, and a JD and a Masters in Tax Law from Boston University. She practiced corporate law, estate planning and criminal law in the Boston area before joining National Amusements. Ms. Redstone brings to our Board her extensive experience in and understanding of the entertainment industry, broad experience and talent managing a large business, extensive legal experience and her experience as President of National Amusements, including as one of its significant stockholders. 28 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL ITEM 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Director Age: 62 Director since: 2018 Committees: • Nominating and Governance Committee SUSAN SCHUMAN Ms. Schuman is the Executive Chair and Co-Founder of SYPartners LLC, a consultancy firm that partners with chief executive officers and their leadership teams undergoing business and cultural transformation, and Vice Chair of the kyu Collective. Ms. Schuman serves on the board of Wheels Up and on the advisory board of IDEO. Over the past 20 years, Ms. Schuman has built and led SYPartners, working with executives at many high-profile companies and organizations. This experience in advising on business, organization and cultural transformation, including new value creation strategies, positions Ms. Schuman as a skilled advisor to the Board on the strategic and transformational direction of the Company. Ms. Schumans service on other public company board committees contributes to her broad understanding of public company governance. Director Age: 65 Director since: 2019 Committees: • Nominating and Governance Committee (Chair) NICOLE SELIGMAN Ms. Seligman served on the board of Viacom from August 2016 to December 2019. Until March 2016, Ms. Seligman served as the President of Sony Entertainment, Inc. (beginning in 2014) and of Sony Corporation of America (beginning in 2012), and as Senior Legal Counsel of Sony Group (beginning in 2014). Ms. Seligman previously served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Sony Corporation from 2005 to 2014. She joined Sony in 2001 and served in a variety of other capacities during her tenure, including as a Corporate Executive Officer and Group Deputy General Counsel of Sony Corporation, and as General Counsel and an Executive Vice President at Sony Corporation of America, a subsidiary of Sony Corporation. Prior to joining Sony Corporation of America, Ms. Seligman was a partner in the litigation practice at Williams & Connolly LLP in Washington, D.C., where she worked on a broad range of complex civil and criminal matters and counseled a wide range of clients, including President William Jefferson Clinton and Lt. Col. Oliver North. Ms. Seligman joined Williams & Connolly in 1985. Ms. Seligman served as law clerk to Justice Thurgood Marshall on the Supreme Court of the United States from 1984 to 1985 and as law clerk to Judge Harry T. Edwards at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit from 1983 to 1984. Ms. Seligman has served on the boards of MeiraGTx Holdings plc since 2019 and Far Peak Acquisition Corporation since 2020, and previously served on the board of Far Point Acquisition Corporation from 2018 until 2020. She has been a Non-Executive Director of WPP plc since 2014 and its Senior Independent Director since 2016. Ms. Seligman has extensive media industry experience with various leadership roles at a major media conglomerate, public company and corporate governance expertise, and exceptional achievements in the legal profession. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 29 ITEM 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Director Age: 67 Director since: 2018 Committees: • Audit Committee FREDERICK O. TERRELL Mr. Terrell is a Senior Advisor at Centerbridge Partners, L.P., a multi-strategy private investment management firm. Mr. Terrell served as Executive Vice Chairman of Investment Banking and Capital Markets at Credit Suisse and later as Senior Advisor from January 2018 to November 2018. From June 2010 to December 2017 he was Vice Chairman of Investment Banking and Capital Markets at Credit Suisse. His investment banking career began in 1983 as an associate with First Boston Corporation. During his accomplished career in the financial services sector spanning more than 25 years, Mr. Terrell was responsible for Credit Suisses global banking relationships with some of its most high-profile clients. From 2000 to 2008 he was the Managing Partner of Provender Capital Group, LLC, a private equity firm focusing on investments in emerging companies. Mr. Terrell currently serves as a member of the boards of directors of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Mobility Capital Finance Inc. (MoCaFi) and Vroom, Inc. and is a member of the Investment Committee of the Rockefeller Foundation. He has served as a member of the board of directors of the New York Life Insurance Company, Wellchoice Inc. (formerly Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield) and Carver Bancorp, Inc. His experience also includes past and present service on multiple not-for-profit boards, including the University Council of Yale University, Yale School of Management, Partnership for New York City, Partnership Fund for New York City, Coro New York Leadership Center, Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York City and the Kaiser Family Foundation. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Economic Club of New York. Based on his extensive banking and corporate advisory experience, Mr. Terrell brings significant business and financial expertise to the Board in its deliberations on corporate strategy, complex transactions and other financial matters. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS A VOTE FOR THE ELECTION OF EACH OF THE DIRECTOR NOMINEES NAMED ABOVE. 30 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL Director Compensation OUTSIDE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION DURING 2021 The following table sets forth information concerning the compensation of our Outside Directors for 2021. Name Fees Earned or Paid in Cash ($) (1) Stock Awards ($) (2) Change in Pension Value and Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Earnings ($) (3) All Other Compensation ($) (4) Total ($) Beinecke, Candace K. 112,000 200,003 62 25,000 337,065 Byrne, Barbara M. 138,000 200,003 0 25,000 363,003 Goldner, Brian(5) 132,000 200,003 52 0 332,055 Griego, Linda M. 114,000 200,003 0 25,000 339,003 Klieger, Robert N. 100,000 200,003 27 25,000 325,030 McHale, Judith A. 133,359 200,003 16 25,000 358,378 Nelson, Ronald L. 132,000 200,003 0 25,000 357,003 Phillips, Jr., Charles E. 112,000 200,003 3,580 0 315,583 Redstone, Shari E. 300,000 200,003 147 0 500,150 Schuman, Susan 112,000 200,003 0 0 312,003 Seligman, Nicole 132,000 200,003 0 0 332,003 Terrell, Frederick O. 116,000 200,003 30 5,000 321,033 (1) Reflects cash amounts earned by Outside Directors in 2021 for (a) the annual Board retainer, (b) the Chair retainer and (c) committee Chair retainers (in the case of Ms. McHale, pro-rated based on the date she became Chair of the Compensation Committee) and meeting fees for standing and ad hoc committee meetings. These amounts include retainers and fees deferred by Mses. Beinecke and Redstone and Messrs. Goldner, Klieger and Phillips under the Director Deferred Compensation Plans. (2) Amounts reflect the grant date fair value determined in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 of the annual grant of RSUs to each Outside Director under the 2015 Equity Plan for Outside Directors. For a discussion of the assumptions made in calculating the grant date fair value amounts for 2021, see Note 15 Stock-Based Compensation to the audited 2021 consolidated financial statements on pages II-78 to II-80 in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. The aggregate number of unvested RSUs outstanding as of December 31, 2021 for each Outside Director was 3,430. The only option awards outstanding as of December 31, 2021 for the Outside Directors were 1,964 stock options held by Mr. Phillips, which were from prior year grants and have since expired. (3) Interest accrues on cash in deferred accounts under the Director Deferred Compensation Plans at the prime rate in effect at Citibank, N.A. at the beginning of each calendar quarter. For 2021, the prime rate represented an interest rate that was more than 120% of the long-term applicable federal rate published by the Internal Revenue Service and therefore is deemed to be preferential for purposes of this table. Accordingly, amounts in the table reflect the amount of interest accrued for each Outside Director in 2021 that exceeded the amount of interest that would have been accrued at 120% of the long-term applicable federal rate published by the Internal Revenue Service. Mses. Byrne, Griego, Schuman and Seligman and Mr. Nelson did not have any deferred cash amounts during 2021. (4) Amounts reflect the aggregate value of all matching contributions made by us on behalf of the director for 2021 under our Matching Gifts Program for Directors. Under the program in effect for 2021, we matched donations made by a director to eligible tax-exempt organizations at the rate of one dollar for each dollar donated up to $25,000 for each fiscal year. (5) Information for Mr. Goldner is through October 12, 2021, the date of his death. DESCRIPTION OF DIRECTOR COMPENSATION Directors who are not employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries are Outside Directors as defined in the director plans described below. Outside Directors receive compensation for their service on the Board and are eligible to participate in these director plans. All of the directors identified in the Outside Director Compensation During 2021 table above were deemed Outside Directors during 2021. Mr. Bakish was not compensated for serving on the Board and was not eligible to participate in any director plans, other than the Matching Gifts Program for Directors. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 31 DIRECTOR COMPENSATION Cash Compensation We pay the following cash compensation to Outside Directors: • The Non-Executive Chair of the Board receives an annual Board retainer of $300,000 and all other Outside Directors receive an annual Board retainer of $100,000, in each case payable in equal installments quarterly in advance; • The Chairs of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees each receive an annual retainer of $20,000, payable in equal installments quarterly in advance, and all members of those Committees receive a per meeting attendance fee of $2,000; and • The Chairs and members of any ad hoc committees of the Board that may exist from time to time will be paid as determined by the Board. Deferred Compensation Plan We maintain deferred compensation plans for Outside Directors (the Director Deferred Compensation Plans). Under the Director Deferred Compensation Plans, Outside Directors may elect to defer their Board and Committee chair retainers and Committee meeting fees. Deferred amounts are credited during a calendar quarter to an interest-bearing income account or a stock unit account in accordance with the directors prior election. Amounts credited to an income account bear interest at the prime rate in effect at the beginning of each calendar quarter. Amounts credited to a stock unit account are deemed invested in phantom units for shares of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on the first day of the calendar quarter following the quarter in which the amounts are credited, with the number of shares calculated based on the closing market prices on that first day. Until the amounts credited to the stock unit account are converted into phantom units, these credited amounts bear interest at the prime rate in effect at the beginning of the relevant calendar quarter. Upon a directors leaving the Board, the amounts deferred under the Director Deferred Compensation Plans are paid in cash in a lump sum or in three or five annual installments, based on the directors prior elections, with the lump sum or initial annual installment becoming payable on the later of six months after the director leaves the Board or January 15th of the following year. The value of a stock unit account is determined by reference to the average of the respective closing market prices of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on Nasdaq on each trading date during the four-week period ending five business days prior to the initial payment date. Amounts paid in installments accrue interest until the final installment is paid. Equity Compensation We maintain the 2015 Equity Plan for Outside Directors (the Director Equity Plan). Outside Directors receive the following awards under the Director Equity Plan: • an annual grant of RSUs on each February 15th, equal to $200,000 in value based on the closing price of our Class B Common Stock on Nasdaq on the date of grant (or, if the date of grant is not a day on which Nasdaq is open for trading, on the last trading day preceding the date of grant), which vest one year from the date of grant; and • prorated RSU grants for Outside Directors who join the Board following the date of the annual RSU grant, but during the calendar year of the grant. Such grants will be made five business days following the date such Outside Director joins the Board, and will be determined by dividing the product of the number of months remaining in such calendar year from the date the Outside Director joins the Board (counting the month of joining as a full month) and one-twelfth of the value of the annual RSU grant for that calendar year by the closing price of our Class B Common Stock on Nasdaq on the date of grant (or, if the date of grant is not a day on which Nasdaq is open for trading, on the last trading day preceding the date of grant). Prorated RSU grants vest on the first anniversary of the date of grant of the annual RSU grant that was awarded during the calendar year in which the Outside Director received such prorated RSU grant. RSUs are payable to Outside Directors in shares of our Class B Common Stock upon vesting unless the director elects to defer the settlement to a future date. Outside Directors are entitled to receive dividend equivalents on the RSUs in the event we pay a regular cash dividend on our Class B Common Stock. Dividend equivalents will accrue on the RSUs (including RSUs for which settlement has been deferred) until the RSUs are settled (and will be forfeited if the RSUs are forfeited). 32 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL DIRECTOR COMPENSATION Matching Gifts Program for Directors All directors are eligible to participate in our Matching Gifts Program for Directors. Under the program, we match donations made by a director to eligible tax-exempt organizations at the rate of one dollar for each dollar donated up to $25,000 for each fiscal year. The purpose of the program is to recognize the interest of the Company and its directors in supporting eligible organizations. Director Stock Ownership Requirement Under the Guidelines, directors are expected to own shares of Paramount stock worth five times the standard annual Board retainer (or $500,000) within three years of becoming a director. Class A Common Stock phantom units and Class B Common Stock phantom units credited pursuant to the Director Deferred Compensation Plans, and vested RSUs for which settlement has been deferred under the Director Equity Plan and the Viacom Inc. 2011 RSU Plan for Outside Directors, count toward the requirement; unvested RSUs are counted at 50%. Other Expenses: Directors are reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in attending Board, committee and stockholder meetings (including travel and lodging) in accordance with our normal travel policies and administrative expenses that may be approved by the Board from time to time. Director Attendance at Certain Other Events: Paramount believes it is in its best interest for directors to participate in certain Company and other events, including to meet with management, customers, talent and others important to our business, and that such participation is, therefore, integrally and directly related to the performance of the directors duties. The Board has established a policy on director attendance at these events. Under the policy, tickets to these events are allocated to directors and we reimburse directors for travel and related expenses in accordance with our travel policies. Occasionally, a directors partner or other guest may accompany him or her to events at our invitation or request. To the extent attendance at and/or travel to these events constitutes a perquisite involving an incremental cost to us, we disclose it in the All Other Compensation column of the Outside Director Compensation During 2021 table. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 33 Item 2 — Ratification of the Appointment of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Audit Committee has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as our independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2022, subject to stockholder ratification. The Audit Committee has reviewed PwCs independence from the Company as described in the Report of the Audit Committee. In appointing PwC as our independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2022, and in recommending that our stockholders ratify the appointment, the Audit Committee has considered whether the non-audit services provided by PwC were compatible with maintaining PwCs independence from the Company and has determined that such services do not impair PwCs independence. Representatives of PwC are expected to be present at the Annual Meeting and will be given an opportunity to make a statement if they desire to do so. They will also be available to respond to questions at the Annual Meeting. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS A VOTE FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE APPOINTMENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP TO SERVE AS OUR INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022. 34 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL Report of the Audit Committee The following Report of the Audit Committee does not constitute soliciting material and shall not be deemed filed or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent we specifically incorporate such information by reference. The Audit Committee Charter states that the purpose of the Audit Committee is to oversee our accounting and financial reporting processes and the audit of our consolidated financial statements. The Audit Committee also assists the Board of Directors oversight of: • The quality and integrity of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures; • The evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and risk management; • Our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; • The independent auditors qualifications and independence; and • The performance of our internal audit function and independent auditor. Under the Audit Committee Charter, the Audit Committees authorities and duties include: • Direct responsibility for the appointment, retention, termination, compensation and oversight of the work of the independent auditor, which reports directly to the Audit Committee, and the sole authority to pre-approve all services provided by the independent auditor; • Reviewing and discussing our annual audited financial statements, quarterly financial statements and earnings releases with management and the independent auditor; • Reviewing the organization, responsibilities, audit plan and results of the internal audit function; • Reviewing with management and the independent auditor the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; • Reviewing with management material legal matters and the effectiveness of our procedures to ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; and • Overseeing our compliance program and receiving periodic reports from the Chief Compliance Officer. The Audit Committee also discusses certain matters with the independent auditor on a regular basis, including our critical accounting policies, certain communications between the independent auditor and management, and the qualifications of the independent auditor. The full text of the Audit Committee Charter is available on the Investors—Corporate Governance & ESG page of our website at ir.paramount.com. The Audit Committee assesses the adequacy of its Charter at least annually, or more frequently as the Committee may determine. Management is responsible for the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, the financial reporting processes and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. The independent auditor is responsible for performing an audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and expressing an opinion on the conformity of the audited consolidated financial statements to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The independent auditor also expresses an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The Audit Committee monitors and oversees these processes. As part of its oversight role, the Audit Committee has reviewed and discussed with management and our independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), the audited consolidated financial statements and our disclosures under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 and matters relating to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021. The Audit Committee has also discussed with PwC all required communications, including the matters required to be discussed by the applicable requirements of the PCAOB and the SEC. In addition, the Audit Committee has received the written disclosures and the letter from PwC required by applicable requirements of the PCAOB regarding the independent accountants communications with the Audit Committee concerning independence and has discussed with PwC the firms independence from the Company. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 35 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Based on this review and these discussions, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited consolidated financial statements be included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Audit Committee Barbara M. Byrne, Chair Judith A. McHale Ronald L. Nelson Frederick O. Terrell 36 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL Fees for Services Provided by the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The following table sets forth fees for professional services rendered by PwC to the Company and its subsidiaries for each of the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. 2021 2020 Audit Fees(1) $18,252,381 $20,140,177 Audit-Related Fees(2) 432,060 804,625 Tax Fees(3) 7,762,122 6,402,107 All Other Fees(4) 68,854 1,800 Total $26,515,417 $27,348,709 (1) Audit fees principally related to the integrated audit of our financial statements, statutory audits and services provided in connection with our debt and equity offerings, comfort letters and SEC filings. In 2020, these fees also included services related to the preparation of audited carve-out financial statements for Simon & Schuster. (2) Audit-related fees principally related to technical accounting advice, agreed-upon procedures and compliance, and domestic and foreign employee benefit plan audits. (3) Tax fees principally related to tax compliance and consulting. (4) All other fees principally related to research projects, license fees for the use of PwC reference materials and publications, access to various online tools and other permissible consulting services. AUDIT COMMITTEE PRE-APPROVAL OF SERVICES PROVIDED BY PWC All audit and non-audit services provided to us by PwC for 2021 were pre-approved by either the full Audit Committee or the Chair of the Audit Committee. Under the Audit Committees pre-approval policies and procedures in effect during 2021, the Chair of the Audit Committee was authorized to pre-approve the engagement of PwC to provide certain specified audit and non-audit services, and the engagement of any accounting firm to provide certain specified audit services, up to a maximum amount of $200,000 per engagement, with the total amount of such authorizations outstanding that have not been reported to the Audit Committee not to exceed an aggregate of $1,000,000. The Audit Committee receives regular reports on the engagements approved by the Chair pursuant to this delegation. For 2022, the Audit Committee has adopted the same pre-approval policies and procedures that were in effect for 2021. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 37 Compensation Discussion and Analysis This Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A) describes our executive compensation philosophy and objectives and the decisions of the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors (Compensation Committee or, in this CD&A, Committee) regarding the fiscal year 2021 compensation of our named executive officers (also referred to as NEOs) included in the compensation tables that appear after this CD&A. Our NEOs and Compensation Committee 38 Our Named Executive Officers 38 Our Compensation Committee 38 Executive Summary 39 Recent Compensation Committee Highlights 39 Our Strategic Growth Priorities 39 Overview of Fiscal Year 2021 Performance 40 Pay for Performance 41 Compensation Philosophy and Objectives 42 Introduction 42 Risk Oversight 42 Our Compensation Strategies 42 Elements of Our Executive Compensation Program 43 Role of Compensation Consultants 44 Peer Group Composition 45 Fiscal 2021 Peer Group 45 Fiscal Year 2021 Compensation 45 Changes in NEOs Compensation Arrangements in 2021 45 Fiscal Year 2021 Compensation Elements 45 Base Salary 45 Annual Bonus Awards 46 Fiscal Year 2022 Bonus Program 50 Long-Term Management Incentive Program 50 Stock Ownership Guidelines 52 Hedging Policy 52 Other Benefits and Programs 52 Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans 52 All Other Compensation 52 Post-Termination Arrangements 53 Employment Contracts 53 Tax Considerations 53 OUR NEOS AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE Our Named Executive Officers The following five executive officers are our NEOs for fiscal year 2021: Robert M. Bakish President and Chief Executive Officer Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Christa A. DAlimonte Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Doretha F. Lea Executive Vice President, Global Public Policy and Government Relations Nancy Phillips Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer Our Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee is composed of Linda M. Griego, Judith A. McHale (Chair) and Ronald L. Nelson, each of whom is an independent director. During fiscal year 2021, the Committee also included Brian Goldner, who was also an independent director and served as Chair of the Committee, until his death on October 12, 2021. Ms. McHale was appointed Chair of the Committee effective December 7, 2021. 38 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS The Committee is made up entirely of independent directors and reviews and approves our compensation arrangements with our NEOs and certain other senior executives. For 2021, the Committee reviewed all elements of NEO compensation, including base salary, annual and long-term incentives, severance arrangements and benefit programs, to ensure that they adhere to our core compensation philosophy and objectives, and approved, with respect to each senior executive under its purview, any salary increases, annual bonus payouts, long-term incentive award determinations and various other compensation actions. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY This CD&A describes our executive compensation philosophy and objectives and provides context for the 2021 compensation actions approved by the Committee for the NEOs. In addition to reviewing and approving the compensation arrangements for our NEOs and certain other senior executives, the Committee adopts and periodically reviews our compensation philosophy, strategy, and principles, and oversees the administration of our cash-based and equity-based incentive plans. Recent Compensation Committee Highlights As further described elsewhere in this proxy statement, during 2021 the Committee continued to support our executive compensation programs, as outlined below, which demonstrate our pay-for-performance linkage and provide alignment with peer and market practices. • Executive Annual Bonus Plan Design: Bonus payouts to our NEOs and other executives in 2021 are primarily based on financial and other quantitative performance measures intended to emphasize our focus on accelerated streaming while also meeting our bottom-line financial goals. See pages 46 to 50. • Stronger Pay-for-Performance Linkage: The Committee recognizes the importance of having long-term performance incentives as a meaningful portion of our NEOs total long-term incentive compensation. Given the uncertain market environment present when our 2021 long-term incentive awards were granted (on November 30, 2020), the Committee determined to deliver 25% of the long-term incentive awards in performance-based equity, with the intent to increase the weighting in future years. For 2022, the Committee increased the percentage of long-term incentive awards delivered in performance-based equity from 25% to 50% for our Chief Executive Officer, and from 25% to 35% for the remaining NEOs and certain other senior executives. See pages 50 to 51. • Enhanced Risk Mitigation: To further discourage imprudent risk taking and avoid undue emphasis on any one metric or goal, for fiscal year 2021 awards, the Committee followed its practice of avoiding the duplication of metrics in the Companys annual bonus plan and long-term incentive plan designs. The Committee intends to continue this practice for fiscal year 2022 awards and beyond. The Committee incorporated multiple risk mitigation concepts in the 2021 Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) design to incentivize our streaming growth while continuing to meet our financial expectations and avoiding unnecessary risk taking. Additionally, the Committee continues to maintain robust executive stock ownership guidelines. See pages 46 to 52. Our Strategic Growth Priorities We are a leading global media and entertainment company that creates premium content and experiences for audiences worldwide. We offer broadcast and cable television programming, innovative streaming services and digital video products, and powerful capabilities in production, distribution and advertising solutions, and have one of the industrys most extensive libraries of television and film titles. As the entertainment industry expands beyond linear-based platforms to streaming video, we have prioritized unlocking the incremental market opportunity in streaming and continue to grow our global ecosystem of pay, free and premium streaming services. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 39 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS We work from a comprehensive and differentiated streaming playbook, rooted in the following strategic priorities: Investment in and Scaling of Our Global Linked Ecosystem Dual Revenue Model Content: Invest in compelling content that will attract and retain a broad base of subscribers Broad Distribution: Utilize strategic partnerships across platforms that allow us to scale up quickly and efficiently International Expansion: Expand our global footprint and build key partnerships in international markets in order to maximize our streaming audience Super Funnel: Use our pay and free streaming services as a funnel to attract subscribers to our other services Building off the Strength of Our Traditional Businesses Content and Platform Leverage: Leverage our successful linear and proprietary content to drive growth in streaming Leverage our content investments across our platforms to enhance streaming economics Use the economic and promotional value of our traditional businesses to promote streaming growth Maximize Growth Opportunities: Utilize a dual revenue stream model, combining advertising revenue and subscription revenue, that provides growth opportunities beyond subscriber growth and pricing The Committee considers these strategic priorities in its comprehensive annual review of our compensation programs, including its design, and determination, of performance-based compensation. (See Annual Bonus Awards for a discussion of changes to our annual bonus program intended to link performance to these priorities.) Overview of Fiscal Year 2021 Performance Despite the ongoing challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic and a workforce that is still largely remote, we continued to exceed our performance goals in 2021. We: • Successfully executed a strategy that shifted our focus to growing the number of global streaming subscribers and increasing global streaming revenue while maximizing revenues from traditional sources to help fund the growth opportunity in streaming; • Launched ParamountPlus in March 2021, a global streaming service for our leading portfolio of brands, including originals, live sports, news, and over 30,000 episodes and movies; • Globally expanded the reach of Pluto TV and ParamountPlus, including in Europe and Latin America; • Maintained leadership as the #1 portfolio in share of viewing, with more top 30 cable networks than any other media family in key demographics, and reached 4.2 billion cumulative TV homes, including 182 million broadcast homes; • Kept CBS the most-watched network across primetime, daytime and late night during the 2020-2021 broadcast season, with the top three dramas, the #1 new series, the #1 comedy series, seven of the top 10 comedy series, the #1 news program and the #1 show in late night (in each case, according to Nielsen NPOWER); • Acquired Chilevision and a majority ownership position in FoxTelecolombia & Estudios TeleMexico, underpinning our position as one of the largest Spanish language content creators globally; • Finalized key platform and distribution deals with T-Mobile, Roku, Twitter, Comcast, Charter, Altice and Cox, among others, using a unified approach across our portfolio; • Continued to navigate COVID-19 issues while adhering to rigorous safety protocols that kept our productions running and supporting the health and wellness of our employees and partners globally; and • Continued to build and develop our best-in-class management team to support our business goals, harmonize operating models, and capitalize on people and process efficiencies across the organization. 40 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS Pay for Performance We believe that those executives with significant responsibility and a greater ability to influence our results should have a significant portion of their total compensation tied directly to business results, and we have continued to shift our executive compensation packages to further emphasize performance-based compensation that is aligned with our business and operational strategy. Accordingly, a high percentage of our NEOs and other senior executives total target compensation is at risk — meaning that we do not intend for them to receive targeted pay amounts if performance does not meet expectations. Additionally, for 2022, the Committee increased the percentage of Mr. Bakishs and our other NEOs long-terms incentive awards that was delivered in PSUs to 50% and 35%, respectively. Consistent with this philosophy, our performance-based compensation programs provide for the opportunity to reward NEOs and other senior executives for contributing to annual financial and operational performance (through annual bonus programs) and stock price appreciation (through long-term equity incentives). The only fixed component of pay is annual base salary. Annual cash incentive awards and long-term equity incentive awards are subject to company performance and/or stock price performance. As illustrated below, approximately 90% of Mr. Bakishs total target compensation as of December 31, 2021 was at risk and thus strongly linked to our results. Similarly, on average, approximately 72% of total target compensation for the other NEOs as of December 31, 2021 was at risk. 2021 Target Compensation Other NEOs: 72% Pay At Risk Mr. Bakish: 90% Pay At Risk 10% Base Salary 39% Annual Bonus 51% Equity Awards 28% Base Salary 32% Annual Bonus 40% Equity Awards Note: The amounts shown in these graphs reflect the target level compensation package for the NEOs as of December 31, 2021 and may differ from actual compensation amounts reflected in the Summary Compensation Table in this proxy statement. In selecting the financial performance metrics and goals for the performance-based compensation programs each year, the Committee considers our annual operating budget for the upcoming year, as approved by the Board. Our budgeting process reflects aggressive goal setting and considers the expected performance of the media industry for that year, as determined by media industry analysts. The Committee believes that this goal-setting process results in challenging, yet realistic, financial and operational goals that, if achieved, will lead to a successful return of value for shareholders. For fiscal year 2021, the Committee determined to incorporate streaming-related metrics that incentivize growth in global subscribers and streaming revenue in order to align performance incentives with our strategic growth priorities. The Committee also determined that it was appropriate to continue utilizing our bottom-line financial metrics — budgeted Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization (OIBDA) and Free Cash Flow (FCF) — when setting quantitative performance goals that reflect our core pay for performance philosophy. See Annual Bonus Awards for additional discussion of these goals. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 41 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS COMPENSATION PHILOSOPHY AND OBJECTIVES Introduction We designed our executive compensation programs to motivate and reward business success and to increase shareholder value, based on the following core objectives: Pay for Performance Ensure plans provide reward levels that reflect variances between actual and desired performance results. Flexible Enable management and the Board to make decisions based on the needs of the business and to recognize different levels of individual contribution. Market Competitive Consider compensation programs of our peers to attract and retain the talent needed to drive sustainable competitive advantage and deliver value to shareholders. Focused on Shareholder Value Align executives interests with shareholder interests, with particular emphasis on creating incentives that reward executives for consistently increasing the value of Paramount In determining our compensation policies and decisions for fiscal year 2021, we considered the results of the previous votes held on the compensation of our NEOs, and as a result, continued to base our compensation programs on the above-listed core objectives. Risk Oversight The Compensation Committee has oversight over the design and administration of our compensation programs, including to ensure that such programs do not promote an environment that encourages unnecessary and excessive risk taking by our employees. Based on managements assessment and input from the Committees independent compensation consultant, the Committee does not believe that our employee compensation policies and practices create risks that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on us. Our Compensation Strategies We use a mix of cash and equity incentives. The Committee believes that both cash and equity incentives are important to an effective compensation structure. Annual cash incentives reward executives for short-term financial and operating results that serve as a foundation for creating long-term value, while equity incentives motivate executives to execute long-term financial and strategic objectives to increase shareholder value. We consider multiple factors when structuring compensation packages. In deciding the amount of cash and equity incentives that our NEOs and other senior executives receive, the Committee does not use rigid guidelines to determine the mix of compensation elements (i.e., short-term versus long-term compensation and cash versus non-cash compensation) for each senior executive. The Committee considers a multitude of factors, including the executives total target compensation, the amount of compensation that is delivered in fixed versus at risk elements of compensation, external market data, internal pay parity, our succession planning needs, the scope of the executives role and the executives performance and length of time in the role. We choose performance metrics and establish performance goals that are intended to further our long-term strategic goals. The Committee believes that a significant portion of our executives compensation should be subject to the achievement of performance goals that are objectively measurable and that represent aggressive performance standards that are reasonably attainable, and that any performance goals are based on easily understood metrics intended to drive shareholder value creation. Each year, the Committee selects the financial performance metrics and goals for the 42 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS performance-based compensation programs and, to avoid distorted performance goals, approves adjustments to the calculation of those goals, which adjustments generally are pre-approved. The Committee believes this process results in performance goals that are challenging, yet realistic, and that will not encourage senior executives to engage in overly risky business activities to achieve unattainable goals or overcome lower results caused by unforeseen events. Elements of Our Executive Compensation Program The table below outlines the key elements of the compensation arrangements with our NEOs and other senior executives, and describes their purpose, key characteristics and, if applicable, the type of performance measured and how we deliver the compensation. Total Target Compensation: Compensation Element Purpose Fixed or At Risk Performance Measured Cash or Equity Base Salary • Provide competitive compensation to attract and retain executive talent • Provide secure base of guaranteed cash for services rendered Fixed Individual Cash Annual Bonus Awards • Incentivize, and reward for, achievement of a combination of challenging annual financial and operational performance goals and individual contributions At Risk Corporate and Individual Cash Long-Term Incentives • Align interests between executives and shareholders • Retain talent and build executive ownership At Risk Corporate Equity The table below sets forth the total target compensation packages for our NEOs as of December 31, 2021. NEO Base Salary Target Bonus Target LTI Award Total Target Compensation Robert M. Bakish $3,100,000 $12,400,000 $16,000,000 $31,500,000 Naveen Chopra $1,400,000 $ 2,100,000 $ 3,000,000 $ 6,500,000 Christa A. DAlimonte $1,250,000 $ 1,562,500 $ 2,187,500 $ 5,000,000 Doretha F. Lea $ 911,550 $ 911,550 $ 750,000 $ 2,573,100 Nancy Phillips $ 787,500 $ 787,500 $ 1,000,000 $ 2,575,000 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 43 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS Other Forms of Compensation: Compensation Component Purpose Health and Welfare, Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans • Promote employee health and financial security for retirement • Provide competitive benefits to attract and retain executive talent Perquisites and Other Personal Benefits • Provide business-related benefits • Assist in attracting and retaining executive talent Post-Termination Arrangements • Attract and retain executive talent in a competitive market by providing temporary income following an involuntary termination of employment • Provide continuity of management • Compensate executives for restrictive covenants and other obligations following a termination without cause or a resignation for good reason WHAT WE DO AND DONT DO We design our executive compensation programs to create long-term stockholder value, align pay and performance and avoid excessive risk taking Include a relative market-based performance metric (i.e., Relative TSR) in our long-term compensation program Maintain robust stock ownership guidelines for officers and directors Cap payouts under our annual bonus program and performance-based equity awards through maximum payouts Vary performance metrics and measurement periods in our compensation programs to mitigate excessive risk-taking Structure overall target compensation so that a substantial majority of our NEOs annual compensation is at risk Conduct a robust annual risk assessment of our compensation programs, policies and practices We incorporate best practices in our compensation programs Clawback Policy: Provide for forfeiture, repayment or adjustment of incentive compensation in the event of a financial restatement without regard to misconduct in our NEOs employment agreements Anti-Hedging Policy: Prohibit our employees from hedging our securities Re-evaluate our peer group on an annual basis Retain an independent compensation consultant Engage with shareholders No Tax Gross-Ups – We do not provide excise tax gross-ups in the event of a change in control in our executive employment agreements No payment of dividends or dividend equivalents on unvested equity awards No repricing of underwater stock options No single-trigger change in control agreements Role of Compensation Consultants The Committee retains an independent compensation consultant to advise the Committee in its review of senior executive compensation. For fiscal year 2021, the independent compensation consultant was ClearBridge Compensation Group LLC (ClearBridge). The Committee has the sole authority to retain and terminate the independent compensation consultant and to review and approve the firms fees and other retention terms. The Committee adopted a policy in 2008 requiring that its independent compensation consultant not provide services to the Company other than its services to the Committee, and ClearBridge did not provide any such services in 2021. 44 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS PEER GROUP COMPOSITION Fiscal Year 2021 Peer Group In reviewing senior executive compensation, the Committee considers data regarding the competitive market for comparable senior executive talent. The Committee reviews the peer group to be used for benchmarking NEO and other senior executive compensation packages with ClearBridge annually. The Committee seeks to include companies with which we compete for executive and creative talent and with a business of similar scope and complexity. The Committee also seeks to ensure that the number of companies in the peer group is sufficient to provide a degree of continuity yearover- year to avoid statistical distortion. Following the Committees review for 2021, the Committee determined that the established peer group, below, continued to reflect those companies with which we compete for talent and that are of a similar size to the Company when measured by revenue and enterprise value and no changes were necessary. 2021 Peer Group AT&T Inc. Charter Communications, Inc. Comcast Corporation Discovery, Inc. DISH Network Corp. Fox Corporation Liberty Global plc Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. Netflix, Inc. News Corporation The Walt Disney Co. The Committee believes that utilizing data from this peer group will continue to allow it to evaluate our NEO compensation to attract, retain and appropriately compensate our executives, while preserving sufficient year-over-year continuity of our peer group. The Committee will continue to use the publicly reported NEO compensation data from companies in this group as reference points in assessing the compensation levels for our NEOs. Consistent with its past practice and overall compensation philosophy, the Committee does not target a benchmark level of compensation and intends to continue to refrain from doing so. The Committee will also maintain its practice of considering the scope of each NEOs responsibility and his or her length of time in the role, in addition to other factors. For 2022, the Committee determined not to make any changes to the peer group. The Committee will continue to review our peer group on an ongoing basis and adjust the composition of the peer group as appropriate to ensure its continued relevance. FISCAL YEAR 2021 COMPENSATION Changes in NEOs Compensation Arrangements in 2021 We did not make any changes to our NEOs compensation levels with respect to fiscal year 2021. Fiscal Year 2021 Compensation Elements The Committees decisions with respect to fiscal year 2021 compensation are discussed below. Base Salary In reviewing proposals for changes to base salary for NEOs, the Committee considers the following: • Appropriate competitive compensation data for the position; • Individual performance; • Base salary level for the executive in relation to the executives total target compensation; • Base salary level as it relates to the allocation of fixed versus at risk compensation; • Input and recommendations of the Chief Executive Officer (for NEOs other than himself); 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 45 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS • The level of the annual merit increase budget across the Company as a whole; and • Existing contractual obligations, if any. Annual Bonus Awards We use annual cash bonuses to reward achievement of financial performance and individual strategic and operational objectives under our STIP, which is the same bonus program in which our broader bonus-eligible employee base participates. In establishing the bonus program for 2021, the following process was utilized: 1. At the beginning of the fiscal year: Approval of the 2021 STIP Design. The Committee approved the framework under which individual bonus amounts for NEOs (and all other bonus-eligible employees) would be determined under the STIP, which consisted of two steps. • Step 1: At or shortly following the end of fiscal year 2021, the Committee will assess the degree of achievement against the quantitative and qualitative performance goals previously set for fiscal year 2021, which will provide a preliminary bonus funding percentage for each NEO. For the quantitative performance goals, bonus amounts will be assessed in relation to pre-established threshold, target and maximum goals. • Step 2: The Committee will have the opportunity to modify the preliminary bonus amount for each NEO based on the Committees assessment of each NEOs individual performance for fiscal year 2021 after consideration of managements recommendation. This two-step approach reflects the Committees view that Company-wide quantitative and qualitative performance, in combination with individual performance, should be the factors used in determining bonuses for NEOs. To avoid undue risk taking, the Committee determined that the final STIP payout for any NEO may not exceed 200% of the NEOs target bonus amount. Setting the 2021 STIP Performance Goals. The Committee established the quantitative performance goals applicable to the 2021 STIP, which were not certain of achievement at the time they were set, and the qualitative performance factors for the year. The goals were developed to encourage and reinforce a One Paramount mindset, as well as incentivize maximizing our traditional businesses to help drive our streaming growth. In setting the 2021 STIP quantitative performance goals, the Committee sought to establish performance goals that were meaningful, challenging, and designed to motivate collaborative performance, without encouraging senior executives to engage in excessively risky business activities in order to achieve unattainable goals or overcome lower results caused by unforeseen events. The Committee determined to base 2021 STIP bonus amounts on the following structure: • 80% based on the degree of achievement of pre-established quantitative performance goals (i.e., collectively, the quantitative performance factor, calculated using weighted average of the payout percentage set for the applicable achievement level). The threshold, target and maximum goals associated with each metric are established annually so that they remain rigorous and in line with our strategic plan. The target established for each metric was set as follows: OIBDA, $4.528 billion; Free Cash Flow, $1.231 billion; Streaming Subscribers, 46 million; and Streaming Revenue, $3.762 billion. 46 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS The following chart explains the Committees rationale in selecting OIBDA, FCF, Streaming Subscribers and Streaming Revenue as the applicable quantitative performance metrics, and the manner in which each such metric is calculated: Performance Metric Why Chosen How Calculated 25% OIBDA 20% Streaming Subscribers 20% Streaming Revenue 15% Free Cash Flow Operating Income Before Depreciation and Amortization (OIBDA) Weighting: 25% An important indicator of our operational strength and performance, as it measures efficiency and profitability and incentivizes management to better control expenses. Using our 2021 budget for OIBDA and then adjusting for items, if any, approved by the Committee that would otherwise distort the calculation of the performance goal. Free Cash Flow (FCF) Weighting: 15% Provides a clear view of our ability to generate cash (and thus profits), which allows us to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Using our 2021 budget for FCF and then adjusting for items, if any, approved by the Committee that would otherwise distort the calculation of the performance goal. Streaming Subscribers Weighting: 20% An important indicator of the overall competitiveness of our Streaming products. Using our 2021 budget for Streaming Subscribers – i.e., global customers who access our domestic or international streaming services, either directly through our owned and operated apps and websites, or through thirdparty distributors – and then adjusting for items, if any, approved by the Committee that would otherwise distort the calculation of the performance goal. Streaming Revenue Weighting: 20% An important driver of our valuation and a key indicator of the future profitability of our Streaming business. Using our 2021 budget for Streaming Revenue – i.e., global subscription fees and advertising revenue generated by our streaming services, including ParamountPlus, Showtime, BET+ and PlutoTV, as well as advertising and subscriptions for our other digital video products – and then adjusting for items, if any, approved by the Committee that would otherwise distort the calculation of the performance goal. • 20% based on the Committees assessment of managements qualitative performance as a whole with regard to the following factors: o Achievement against a combined synergy goal (certain company-wide post-merger integration and cost synergy objectives) (5%); o Execution of our fiscal year 2021 strategy (5%), including how well we executed in evolving the Company into a leading global, multi-platform, premium content company, capitalizing on opportunities to realize cost synergies and improve business operations, producing high quality content across the entire Company, launching our ad- and non-ad supported streaming strategy, and continuing to tailor our asset portfolio; o Organization Development (5%), continuing to navigate the impact of the COVID pandemic on the workplace, integrating values into all people processes and continuing to build a high-performing and inclusive culture that is a competitive advantage for us; and o Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (5%), continuing to make tangible progress on company-wide Diversity, Equity & Inclusion representation goals by hiring, retaining, promoting and developing diverse talent while fostering an inclusive work environment. Multiple risk mitigation concepts were incorporated into the 2021 STIP design in an effort to strike the appropriate balance in managements focus on our bottom-line financial goals and our streaming growth strategy. OIBDA and FCF payouts were each subject to a maximum payout below 200% of target in order to incentivize a shift in efforts towards driving streaming growth. The streaming factors were subject to maximum payouts of 300% for achievement of maximum performance, provided that if threshold performance for either of the OIBDA or FCF metric was not achieved, both streaming metrics would be capped at a maximum payout percentage of 150%. The Committee determined that these limitations on streaming metric payouts were appropriate to ensure that our bottom-line financial goals continued to remain a priority for management. Additionally, the maximum amount of STIP funding was capped at 200% of the STIP pool at target. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 47 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 2. At or shortly following the end of the fiscal year: Determining Actual Bonus Payments. In accordance with the framework described above, the OIBDA, FCF, Streaming Subscribers and Streaming Revenue results were calculated by starting with our 2021 results for each metric and then adjusting for items approved by the Committee that would otherwise have distorted the calculation of the performance goals. Actual performance, including such adjustments, with respect to OIBDA was $4.778 billion, with respect to FCF was $1.763 billion, with respect to Streaming Subscribers was 53.5 million and with respect to Streaming Revenue was $4.124 billion. The Committee determined to adjust our quantitative performance to account for the Companys decision to significantly increase its spending on content to fuel the growth of ParamountPlus and the Companys other streaming services, which incremental content investments were not factored into the original budgeted performance goals. Additionally, the Committee decided to adjust our cash results to account for the unbudgeted impact of taxes paid on the divestiture of certain real estate holdings. Each of the foregoing adjustments was made as contemplated by the STIP design approved by the Committee in February 2021. Adjusted Quantitative Performance Results (80%) (in millions) OIBDA (25%) Free Cash Flow (15%) Streaming Subscribers (20%) Streaming Revenue (20%) Unadjusted Result $4,546 $ 843 56.1 $4,193 Adjustment $ 232 $ 920 (2.6) ($69) Adjusted Result $4,778 $1,763 53.5 $4,124 In accordance with step one of the two-step STIP design process discussed above, in February 2022, the Committee evaluated our adjusted performance for 2021 against the pre-established quantitative performance goals and our qualitative performance after receiving the Chief Executive Officers overall assessment of the Companys 2021 qualitative performance goals. Based on its quantitative and qualitative assessment, the Committee determined the preliminary bonus funding percentage for 2021 to be 120.1% of target. In accordance with step two of the two-step STIP design process discussed above, the Committee then modified the 120.1% preliminary bonus funding percentage for each NEO based on the Committees assessment of each NEOs individual performance after consideration of managements recommendation. When making its 2021 bonus determinations, the Committee considered the input and recommendations of Mr. Bakish with respect to NEOs other than himself. With respect to Mr. Bakish, the Committee took into account his performance evaluation conducted by the Committee, together with the Nominating and Governance Committee, after the close of the fiscal year. The Committees determination of the NEOs annual bonus amounts, as set forth in the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021 following this CD&A, took into account each NEOs contributions toward the qualitative performance factors described above, as well as a variety of factors it deemed appropriate, with no pre-determined emphasis on any individual factor. The Committee also considered each NEOs target bonus amount for 2021, which amounts are based on competitive practice and are included in the table below. The differences in the target bonus amounts set forth in the NEOs agreements partly reflect the level of relative impact of each of their positions on our performance. Because of our NEOs performance, we continued to deliver on our streaming strategy and were positioned to return value to our shareholders. In addition to the accomplishments and other considerations discussed earlier in this CD&A, the Committee noted the following accomplishments within this context: • Mr. Bakish continued to provide strategic leadership and management for our Company during a time of tremendous challenges and opportunities. He and his senior executive team: o successfully executed a strategy that shifted our focus to growing our number of global streaming subscribers and increasing global streaming revenue while maximizing revenues from traditional sources, growing global streaming subscribers 88% year-over-year to 56.1 million and increasing revenues for 2021 13% year-over-year to $28.59 billion; o launched ParamountPlus in March 2021, a global streaming service for our leading portfolio of brands, including originals, live sports, news, and over 30,000 episodes and movies, reaching 32.8 million global subscribers as of December 31, 2021; o expanded the global reach of ParamountPlus, Pluto TV and our other streaming services, including in Europe and Latin America, positioning Pluto TV to generate over $1 billion in revenue in 2021; 48 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS o delivered on key strategic and operational goals, such as achieving cost synergy goals and improving business operations while continuing to lead a high-performing senior management team during a global pandemic while working remotely; o successfully concluded key distribution agreements using a unified approach across our portfolio; o successfully pursued opportunities to divest or exit non-core properties and businesses, including the Black Rock building in Manhattan and the CBS Studios campus in Los Angeles; and o continued to focus on developing a high-performing workforce, fostering an inclusive workplace, protecting the health of our employees and supporting our communities and audiences that we serve. • Mr. Chopra and Mses. DAlimonte, Lea and Phillips were key members of the senior management team. o Mr. Chopra participated in and advised the senior management team and provided leadership of our finance, accounting, tax, treasury, investor relations, strategy and corporate development, technology and facilities and real estate functions, and continued to strengthen and streamline our finance organization and processes. Mr. Chopra was instrumental in developing and executing on our accelerated streaming strategy and oversaw numerous initiatives to drive efficiencies and manage costs, including the development of a strategy to optimize decision-making across the Company as it pertains to the monetization of content. Mr. Chopra continues to be a strong advocate and voice in our inclusive, valuesdriven corporate culture. o Ms. DAlimonte was a member of our senior management team and provided leadership of our global legal and compliance functions, providing expert counsel and sound judgement to the Board and senior management on a wide variety of matters, including commercial transactions and negotiations, litigation and dispute resolution, regulatory matters, and ongoing business counseling and advice. The Committee recognized that Ms. DAlimonte provided strategic and legal guidance to our Board of Directors as it addressed complex issues relating to executive management, corporate governance and shareholder matters. Ms. DAlimonte supported steady execution of our accelerated streaming strategy, and other strategic initiatives including content distribution partnerships and divestitures of non-core assets. She has also been a strong advocate for enabling a diverse, equitable and inclusive law department and Company as a whole. o Ms. Lea participated in and advised the senior management team and provided leadership of our worldwide government relations function, overseeing the development and execution of our government relations strategy both domestically and internationally. Ms. Lea advocated public policy positions for the content distribution and film industries at the international, national, state, and local levels, worked extensively on television and film production tax credits, and provided political, policy and regulatory expertise to our executives, including continued regulatory advice with respect to federal, state and local rules and mandates pertaining to the COVID pandemic. o Ms. Phillips participated in and advised the senior management team and led our people strategy and operations. Ms. Phillips provided leadership of our human resources and security functions, including our talent acquisition, people development, people operations and total rewards strategies, and managed several significant leadership and organizational changes. Ms. Phillips was instrumental in working to integrate engagement, diversity, equity and inclusion into all aspects of the people strategy, creating a highperforming, high-development organizational culture that is diverse, equitable, and inclusive, as well as an organizational culture that will serve as a competitive advantage for us. In addition, Ms. Phillips continued to chair our COVID Task Force, which included meeting with medical experts and federal, state and local officials to leverage best practice protocols that enabled our programming to remain in production throughout the year. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 49 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS Based on the foregoing, the Committee approved the specific annual bonus amounts set forth in the table below and in the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021 under the Non-Equity Incentive column for each of the above NEOs. NEO Target Award Preliminary Bonus Funding Percentage Preliminary Award Individual Multiplier Final Award Robert M. Bakish $12,400,000 120.1% $14,892,400 113% $16,828,412 Naveen Chopra $ 2,100,000 120.1% $ 2,522,100 105% $ 2,648,205 Christa A. DAlimonte $ 1,562,500 120.1% $ 1,876,563 105% $ 1,970,391 Doretha F. Lea $ 911,550 120.1% $ 1,094,772 105% $ 1,149,510 Nancy Phillips $ 787,500 120.1% $ 945,788 105% $ 993,077 Fiscal Year 2022 Bonus Program We combined financial and streaming-based quantitative performance goals in the 2021 STIP design to emphasize our focus on accelerated streaming growth while also meeting our bottom-line financial goals. Given the Committees and managements assessment that the 2021 STIP design was successful in driving and rewarding desired behaviors, for 2022, the Committee determined to continue with generally the same performance metrics, weightings, payout curves and risk mitigation concepts that were incorporated into the 2021 STIP design. Long-Term Management Incentive Program Long-Term Management Incentive Program (LTMIP) The LTMIP is designed as a pay for performance vehicle to encourage executives to make decisions that will create and sustain long-term value for shareholders. It is also a vehicle used to retain talent and build executive ownership. Through our total compensation design, a significant portion of the total compensation opportunity for the NEOs is directly linked to stock price performance, with the goal of creating alignment with our shareholders. Eligibility to participate in the LTMIP is generally limited to executives who have management responsibility. The type and mix of equity-based vehicles used to deliver value varies primarily by an executives level in the organization and our business needs. The Committee considers the following objectives in determining the appropriate type and mix of equitybased vehicles: • Increased accountability for senior executives (Performance-Based Stock Awards): Motivate senior executives to focus on our performance through the achievement of pre-established financial goals over a designated period. • Retention of talent and alignment with shareholder interests in both up and down markets (Time-Based Stock Awards): Provide real retention value in the form of awards that are earned over a specified vesting period, with the value of awards tied to the value of our stock price. The Committee discusses with management and ultimately approves the values, mix, and type of annual grants for senior executives, subject to the terms of an executives employment agreement. In determining the value, mix, and type of awards, the Committee takes into consideration the above objectives and the competitive assessment of total compensation reviewed by the independent compensation consultant and reviews the LTMIP with its independent compensation consultant and senior management. Fiscal Year 2021 LTMIP Awards As previously disclosed, the Committee approved fiscal year 2021 LTMIP awards on October 21, 2020, with grants to be made effective November 30, 2020, to eligible employees, including NEOs other than Mr. Chopra, who received his 2021 LTMIP award in restricted share units subject only to time-based vesting conditions (TRSUs) on August 24, 2020. In considering the timing and types of awards to be granted, the Committee considered the impact of the global pandemic and the difficulty in setting long-term financial goals in the uncertain market environment. As a result, the Committee authorized awards to the NEOs other than Mr. Chopra in a mix of 25% Performance Share Units (PSUs) and 75% TRSUs. The performance criterion for the PSUs is Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance against the companies in the S&P 500 (i.e., relative TSR). The 25% portion of the annual awards delivered in PSUs was divided into three separate tranches, each with a distinct 50 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS measurement period beginning on December 1, 2020 and ending on each of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th anniversaries of the grant date, respectively. For each tranche of PSUs, the number of shares of Paramount Class B Common Stock to be delivered following the applicable measurement period is as follows: Achievement of TSR* Percentage of Target Shares Earned Less than the 25th Percentile Award Forfeited 25th Percentile 80% of Target Award 50th Percentile 100% of Target Award 75th Percentile or greater 120% of Target Award * Linear interpolation between points of TSR achievement Dividend equivalents accrue on the shares underlying the PSUs and equal the value of regular cash dividends paid on the shares of our Class B Common Stock. Dividend equivalents are paid in cash, less applicable withholdings, when the PSUs vest. If the PSUs do not vest, then the dividend equivalents accrued on those PSUs are forfeited. Due to the timing of the 2021 LTMIP award grants (in fiscal year 2020), that component of compensation does not appear in the tables in this report, other than in the 2020 data in the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021. There were no LTMIP award grants made during fiscal year 2021. Fiscal Year 2022 LTMIP Awards For 2022, the Committee determined to continue granting LTMIP awards to NEOs in a combination of PSUs and TRSUs. However, the Committee believes that increasing the percentage of each NEOs LTMIP award made in the form of performance-based equity would further strengthen the alignment between senior leadership and shareholders and better reflect our pay for performance philosophy. Therefore, the Committee determined to increase the portion of the LTMIP award granted in PSUs from 25% to 50% for Mr. Bakish, our Chief Executive Officer, and from 25% to 35% for all other NEOs. The performance criteria for the PSUs will remain TSR performance against the companies in the S&P 500 (i.e., relative TSR), but for 2022 there will be only one tranche of PSUs with a single three-year performance period beginning on the grant date. Equity Award Grant Date Procedures The grant date for equity awards is the date on which the Committee approves awards under the LTMIP or, if so determined by the Committee, a future grant date, or a date specified in an employment agreement. The Committee may approve an award that will have a future grant date, with the exercise price of any stock option not to be less than the closing price of a share of our Class B Common Stock on the date of grant. We do not set grant dates intentionally to precede or follow the release of material non-public information. We provide communications regarding individual grant awards, including the terms and conditions, to recipients as soon as administratively feasible. The Committee approved annual management grants awarded for 2020 on September 24, 2019, with a grant date of November 1, 2019, and annual management grants awarded for 2021 on October 21, 2020, with a grant date of November 30, 2020. For 2022, the Committee approved annual management grants on February 10, 2022, with a grant date of March 1, 2022 and the Committee intends that future annual management grants will have a grant date in the first quarter of the applicable fiscal year. Other Terms for TRSUs TRSUs generally vest in equal annual installments over the four-year period following the date of grant. For a description of certain other material terms of the TRSUs, see Grants of Plan-Based Awards During 2021 — Description of Plan- Based Awards. Delegation of Authority with Respect to LTMIP Awards The Committee has delegated to the Chief Executive Officer limited authority, with respect to executives who are not, and are not reasonably expected to become, specified employees, (i) to grant long-term incentive awards under our long-term incentive plan to such executives in connection with their hiring, promotion, or contract renewal or for any other reason and (ii) to modify certain terms of outstanding equity grants in some post-termination circumstances. The Committee delegated this authority in order for the Chief Executive Officer to have the ability to (i) act in a timely manner in a 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 51 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS competitive environment in connection with the hiring of new executives or the compensation of an existing executive being given a significant increase in responsibility and (ii) maintain flexibility to manage compensation in post-termination circumstances when mutually beneficial to us and the executive. The Committees delegation specifies the circumstances in which the authority may be used and limits the amount that may be awarded to an individual, the total amount that may be awarded in a given period, and, in certain circumstances, the aggregate incremental expense we may incur as a result of modifications to the terms of outstanding equity grants. The delegation also requires that the Chief Executive Officer report to the Committee periodically on his exercise of this delegated authority. STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES In order to further align the NEOs and other senior executives interests with those of our shareholders, we have established stock ownership guidelines. The guidelines provide that, within five years, starting in fiscal year 2007 for legacy CBS senior executives and May of 2018 for legacy Viacom senior executives or, if later, in the year in which a senior executive first becomes subject to the guidelines, the NEOs and certain other senior executives are expected to acquire and establish holdings in our stock equal in value to a multiple of their cash base (base salary less mandatory deferrals, if applicable), depending on their positions as follows: Senior Executive Ownership Guideline Multiple Chief Executive Officer 6x cash base Other Senior Executives 1x to 3x cash base All types of equity holdings, with the exception of stock options, are included in determining ownership. The Committee monitors compliance with these guidelines by receiving an annual progress report from senior management. During 2021, senior management reported to the Committee that all NEOs subject to the guidelines met the guidelines as applied to each of them at that time. The Committee continues to periodically monitor compliance with the guidelines. HEDGING POLICY We believe that engaging in short-term speculation in Paramount securities or personally profiting from a decline in our stock price would be, or may appear to be, inconsistent with the interests of our stockholders and the long-term value of the Company. Therefore, all employees, including our NEOs, are prohibited from (1) engaging in short sales of Company securities that they beneficially own and from buying or selling beneficial ownership of any Company-based derivative securities (such as puts and calls) that would result in receiving any gain or benefit if the price of the security declines, and (2) entering into any derivative transactions with respect to beneficial ownership of Company securities (including unvested equity compensation), including any short sale, forward, equity swap, option or collar that is based on our stock price. OTHER BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans We provide active, eligible employees with the opportunity to build financial resources for retirement through our broadbased tax-qualified defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans. In addition, eligible executives participate in our nonqualified defined benefit and/or deferred compensation plans. In some instances, participants in these qualified and nonqualified plans may also have frozen benefits in other qualified and nonqualified plans. Information regarding the retirement and deferred compensation plans applicable to our NEOs is set forth in the narrative after the Pension Benefits in 2021 table and the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation in 2021 table. All Other Compensation We provide other compensation to participating employees by making employer contributions in 401(k) and excess 401(k) plans and by providing company-paid life insurance. Compensation paid to the NEOs in relation to these programs is included in the All Other Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021. In certain instances, we provide executives with additional benefits that we believe are reasonable and typical for executives in similar industries and help us to attract and retain these executives. Among these benefits are 52 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS transportation-related benefits, which we believe provide security, travel flexibility and efficiencies that result in a more productive use of the executives time, given the demands of his or her position. Information regarding the benefits described in this paragraph is included in footnote 6 to the All Other Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021. Post-Termination Arrangements Each of the NEOs is entitled to post-termination payments and benefits upon the occurrence of a termination without cause or a resignation for good reason and upon death or disability, as set forth in their respective employment agreements. The terms of these payments and benefits, and the estimated potential payments that would be made to each NEO if his or her employment terminated as of the 2021 fiscal year-end for the applicable reasons noted above are described under Potential Payments upon Termination and Certain Other Events. In assessing post-termination payments and benefits in connection with senior executive employment arrangements, the Committee considers competitive practice with respect to comparable executives at peer companies as well as prevailing practice and trends with respect to other public companies that are relevant in terms of size and complexity. The objective of these payments and benefits is to recruit and retain talent in a competitive market and, as applicable, compensate executives for restrictive covenants and other obligations following a termination without cause or a resignation for good reason. Employment Contracts All of the NEOs have employment contracts with us, as the Committee has considered it to be in our best interests, and as the best means, to secure the employment of each of these executives. The terms and provisions of these contracts are more fully described in the narrative section after the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021. TAX CONSIDERATIONS As it previously existed, Section 162(m) generally limited to $1 million the federal tax deductibility of some forms of compensation paid in one year to an NEO and provided that performance-based compensation may qualify for an exception to the limit on deductibility, if, among other requirements, the plan under which such compensation is paid met certain requirements, including stockholder approval. Our long-term incentive plan was designed to permit awards that would comply with this Section 162(m) exception for performance-based compensation, and our stockholders previously approved this plan. Legislation signed into law in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, expanded the number of individuals covered by Section 162(m) and eliminated the exception for performance-based compensation for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, except for otherwise qualified compensation payable pursuant to a written binding contract in effect on November 2, 2017 that is not subsequently materially modified (so-called grandfathered arrangements). Prior to the Merger, in order to provide appropriate compensation, the Committee historically approved compensation exceeding the $1 million limitation under Section 162(m), including with respect to a portion of base salary and long-term incentives. Because all of the NEOs entered into new employment agreements in connection with the Merger or later, the Committee no longer considers Section 162(m) when structuring pay packages for our executives, and no assurance can be given that compensation for 2021 or future years will be deductible under applicable transition relief rules. The Committee intends to continue to implement compensation programs that it believes are competitive and in the best interests of Paramount and our shareholders, even if not fully deductible. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 53 Compensation Committee Report The following Compensation Committee Report does not constitute soliciting material and shall not be deemed filed or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent we specifically incorporate such information by reference. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Paramount Global has reviewed and discussed with management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A) included in this proxy statement. Based on this review and these discussions, the Compensation Committee has recommended to the Paramount Global Board of Directors that the CD&A be included in this proxy statement and incorporated by reference from this proxy statement into the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 15, 2022. Members of the Compensation Committee Linda M. Griego Judith A. McHale, Chair Ronald L. Nelson 54 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL Executive Compensation SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021 The following table sets forth information concerning total compensation for fiscal years 2021, 2020 and 2019, as applicable, for our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and three other most highly compensated executive officers for fiscal year 2021 (the NEOs). The amounts with respect to 2019 for the former Viacom NEOs (Mr. Bakish and Mses. DAlimonte and Phillips) reflect payments made by us during the period commencing on the December 4, 2019 closing date of the merger of Viacom with and into CBS (the Merger) and ending on December 31, 2019 (or, in the case of bonuses, payments made in 2020 for services rendered in 2019). Name and Principal Position Year Salary ($) (1) Bonus ($) (2) Stock Awards ($) (3) Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation ($) (4) Change in Pension Value and NQDC Earnings ($) (5) All Other Compensation ($) (6) Total ($) Robert M. Bakish(7) President and Chief Executive Officer; Director 2021 3,100,000 – – 16,828,412 – 106,800 20,035,212 2020 3,106,923 – 15,999,968 19,693,060 144,644 29,173 38,973,768 2019 230,769 3,123,664 4,999,997 – 4,399 6,556 8,365,385 Naveen Chopra(8) EVP, Chief Financial Officer 2021 1,400,000 – – 2,648,205 – 20,757 4,068,962 2020 538,462 2,000,000 7,499,975 1,208,375 – 6,617 11,253,429 Christa A. DAlimonte(9) EVP, General Counsel and Secretary 2021 1,250,000 – – 1,970,391 – 25,007 3,245,398 2020 1,260,952 – 2,187,451 2,481,484 – 23,717 5,953,604 2019 83,985 393,607 – – – 5,505 483,097 Doretha F. Lea(10) EVP, Global Public Policy and Government Relations 2021 911,550 – – 1,149,510 2,049 25,722 2,088,831 2020 911,550 – 749,967 1,384,736 116,521 23,252 3,186,026 Nancy Phillips(11) EVP, Chief People Officer 2021 787,500 – – 993,077 – 27,070 1,807,647 2020 787,211 540,000 999,957 1,250,668 – 22,927 3,600,763 2019 57,692 66,126 2,999,973 – – – 3,123,791 (1) Salary includes amounts deferred under qualified and nonqualified arrangements for each of the NEOs. See the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation in 2021 table for further information on amounts deferred under nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements. (2) Amounts for Mr. Bakish and Ms. DAlimonte represent cash payments made in early 2020 for performance from October 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019 and, for Ms. Phillips, represent cash payments made in early 2020 for performance from December 2, 2019 through December 31, 2019. Because these payments were made by us, they are reflected in the Bonus column, even though a portion of these payments relates to services rendered by the applicable NEO to Viacom prior to the effective time of the Merger. Amounts for 2020 for Ms. Phillips and Mr. Chopra represent the applicable executives sign-on bonus amount paid pursuant to such executives letter agreement. (3) Amounts reflect the aggregate grant date fair values for RSUs and PSUs determined in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718. The Compensation Committee approved fiscal year 2021 LTMIP awards on October 21, 2020, with grants to be made effective November 30, 2020, to eligible employees, including NEOs other than Mr. Chopra, who received his fiscal year 2021 LTMIP award on August 24, 2020 in connection with the commencement of his employment by us. Due to the timing of the 2021 LTMIP award grants, those grants do not appear in the above table (they appeared in the corresponding table in our 2021 proxy statement). No equity-based awards were granted to NEOs in fiscal year 2021. (4) Amounts represent the amount of compensation earned by the applicable NEO under our 2021 annual performance-based bonus program. (5) Amounts relate to changes in pension value only. None of our nonqualified deferred compensation plans for executives provide for above-market interest or preferential earnings. For Mr. Bakish, the change in pension value in 2021 was negative (-$12,822). 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 55 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (6) The following table describes each component of the All Other Compensation column for 2021: Named Executive Officer Company Contribution to 401(k) Plans ($)(a) Company Contribution to 401(k) Excess Plan ($)(b) Company Contribution to Profit Sharing Plan ($)(c) Company- Paid Life Insurance ($)(d) Perquisites and Other Personal Benefits Total ($) Transportation- Related Benefits ($)(e) Robert M. Bakish 6,500 – 4,275 7,080 88,945 106,800 Naveen Chopra 14,500 – 4,275 1,982 – 20,757 Christa A. DAlimonte 4,875 14,087 4,275 1,770 – 25,007 Doretha F. Lea 8,855 11,301 4,275 1,291 – 25,722 Nancy Phillips 13,929 7,750 4,275 1,116 – 27,070 (a) Represents Company matching contributions made for 2021 under the applicable Company-sponsored 401(k) plan. (b) Represents Company matching contributions made for 2021 under our excess 401(k) plan. (c) Represents Company profit sharing contributions made for 2021 under the applicable Company-sponsored 401(k) plan. (d) Represents premiums paid by us in 2021 for life insurance coverage. (e) The amounts of perquisites and other personal benefits shown in this column include (i) $28,760, attributable to the personal use of a car and driver and/or personal use of car service, all provided for business-related security reasons and (ii) $60,185 in incremental cost to us of the personal use of our aircraft. The incremental cost to us of the personal use of our aircraft is calculated by dividing the total variable costs (including fuel, maintenance, landing and navigation fees, catering, flight crew trip expenses, telecommunications, supplies and miscellaneous expenses) by the total flight hours for such year and multiplying such amount by the executives total number of flight hours for his personal use for the year (including flights made to reposition the plane in connection with such personal use). Fixed costs that do not change based on usage, such as pilot salaries, hangar rental and insurance, are excluded. (7) Mr. Bakish became our President and Chief Executive Officer on December 4, 2019, following the closing of the Merger. Except for the amounts reported in the Bonus column, which are described in footnote (2), amounts reported for Mr. Bakish for 2019 reflect compensation we paid to him during the portion of 2019 for which he was employed by us. As disclosed in our 2021 proxy statement, we estimate that Mr. Bakishs annual total compensation for 2019 would have been approximately $36,572,367 if all compensation elements for Mr. Bakish in 2019 were annualized, excluding the amounts in the Bonus and Stock Awards columns, but adding (i) his target annual bonus ($12.4 million), (ii) his target annual equity award incentive ($16 million), in each case pursuant to his employment agreement, and (iii) the grant date fair value of the one-time transaction award ($5 million) granted in December 2019. (8) Mr. Chopra became our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer on August 10, 2020. Amounts reported for Mr. Chopra reflect compensation paid to him during the portion of 2020 for which he was employed by us. (9) Ms. DAlimonte became our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary on December 4, 2019, following the closing of the Merger. Except for the amounts reported in the Bonus column, which are described in footnote (2), amounts reported for Ms. DAlimonte for 2019 reflect compensation we paid to her during the portion of 2019 for which she was employed by us. (10) Ms. Lea first became an NEO for fiscal year 2020; therefore, only fiscal year 2020 and 2021 information is provided. (11) Ms. Phillips became our Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer on December 4, 2019, following the closing of the Merger. Except for the amounts reported in the Bonus column, which are described in footnote (2), amounts reported for Ms. Phillips for 2019 reflect compensation we paid to her during the portion of 2019 for which she was employed by us. Employment Agreements with NEOs During fiscal year 2021, all NEOs had employment agreements that set forth the terms and conditions of their employment. The material terms of each of these agreements that are necessary to an understanding of the information provided in the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021 are provided below. See Potential Payments Upon Termination and Certain Other Events for a discussion of the severance payments and benefits for the NEOs in connection with a termination of their employment and, under Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the sections entitled Annual Bonus Awards and Long-Term Incentive Program for discussions of the terms of the bonus awards and equity awards. 56 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Robert M. Bakish On August 13, 2019, Viacom entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Bakish, pursuant to which, upon the closing of the Merger, he became our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Bakishs agreement has a four-year term and provides for an annual base salary of $3.1 million per year, which shall be reviewed annually by the Compensation Committee and may be increased at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, and an annual target bonus opportunity of $12.4 million per year. Mr. Bakish is eligible to receive annual grants of equity compensation with an aggregate target value of $16 million. Pursuant to a letter agreement entered into in connection with Mr. Bakishs employment agreement, he received a one-time grant of TRSUs with a grant date value of $5 million, vesting in equal installments on each of the first four anniversaries of the closing of the Merger. Mr. Bakish has not received a compensation increase since that time. Mr. Bakishs employment agreement contains certain restrictive covenants, including non-solicitation covenants, non-competition covenants, covenants prohibiting interference with business relationships and covenants protecting confidential information. The agreement also provides for severance payments and benefits in the event that his employment is terminated by us without cause or by him with good reason, or, in certain circumstances, following non-extension of his employment agreement. Naveen Chopra On June 30, 2020, we entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Chopra, pursuant to which he became our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, effective August 10, 2020, as well as a letter agreement setting forth additional terms of Mr. Chopras compensation. The employment agreement has a three-year term and provides for an annual base salary of $1.4 million, which shall be reviewed annually by the Compensation Committee and may be increased at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, and an annual target bonus of 150% of his annual salary. With respect to fiscal year 2020, the employment agreement provides for Mr. Chopra to receive a guaranteed minimum annual bonus, subject to pro-ration based on Mr. Chopras start date. Mr. Chopra is eligible to receive annual grants of equity compensation with an aggregate target value of $3 million, beginning with the annual grant made for fiscal year 2022. Pursuant to a letter agreement entered into in connection with Mr. Chopras employment agreement (the Chopra Letter Agreement), Mr. Chopra received two grants of equity compensation on August 24, 2020 with grant date values of $3 million and $4.5 million, which were in lieu of a fiscal 2021 long-term equity incentive award and in consideration of forfeited compensation from his former employer, respectively. Pursuant to the Chopra Letter Agreement and as further consideration for forfeited compensation from his former employer, Mr. Chopra received a one-time sign-on cash bonus of $2 million, which is subject to repayment in the event of certain terminations of Mr. Chopras employment. Mr. Chopra has not received a compensation increase since that time. Mr. Chopras employment agreement contains certain restrictive covenants, including non-solicitation covenants, non-competition covenants, covenants prohibiting interference with business relationships and covenants protecting confidential information. The employment agreement also provides for severance payments and benefits in the event that Mr. Chopras employment is terminated by us without cause or by him with good reason, or, in certain circumstances, following non-extension of his employment agreement. Christa A. DAlimonte On August 13, 2019, Viacom entered into an employment agreement with Ms. DAlimonte, pursuant to which, upon the closing of the Merger, she became our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Ms. DAlimontes agreement had a three-year term and provided for an annual base salary of $1.25 million per year, to be reviewed annually by the Compensation Committee and increased at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, and an annual target bonus opportunity of 125% of her annual base salary. Ms. DAlimonte was eligible to receive annual grants of equity compensation with an aggregate target value of $2,187,500. In connection with the extension of her employment agreement through June 30, 2025, Ms. DAlimontes base salary was increased to $1.35 million, effective March 15, 2022, and, beginning with fiscal year 2022, the aggregate target grant date value of her annual equity compensation was increased to $2.7 million. Ms. DAlimontes employment agreement contains certain restrictive covenants, including non-solicitation covenants, non-competition covenants, covenants prohibiting interference with business relationships and covenants protecting confidential information. The agreement also provides for severance payments and benefits in the event that her employment is terminated by us without cause or by her with good reason, or, in certain circumstances, following non-extension of her employment agreement. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 57 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Doretha F. Lea On October 2, 2019, Viacom entered into an employment agreement with Ms. Lea, pursuant to which, upon the closing of the Merger, she became our Executive Vice President, Global Public Policy and Government Relations. Ms. Leas agreement had a three-year term and provided for an annual base salary of $911,550 per year, to be reviewed annually by the Compensation Committee and increased at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, and an annual target bonus opportunity of 100% of her annual base salary. Ms. Lea was eligible to receive annual grants of equity compensation with an aggregate target value of $750,000. In connection with the extension of her employment agreement through December 31, 2025, Ms. Leas base salary was increased to $1 million, effective October 1, 2022, and, beginning with fiscal year 2023, the aggregate target grant date value of her annual equity compensation was increased to $1 million. Ms. Leas employment agreement contains certain restrictive covenants, including non-solicitation covenants, non-competition covenants, covenants prohibiting interference with business relationships and covenants protecting confidential information. The agreement also provides for severance payments and benefits in the event that her employment is terminated by us without cause or by her with good reason, or, in certain circumstances, following non-extension of her employment agreement. Nancy Phillips On December 2, 2019, Viacom entered into an employment agreement with Ms. Phillips, pursuant to which, upon the closing of the Merger, she became our Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer. Ms. Phillips agreement had a threeyear term and provided for an annual base salary of $750,000, to be reviewed annually by the Compensation Committee and increased at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, and an annual target bonus opportunity of 100% of her annual salary. Ms. Phillips was eligible to receive annual grants of equity compensation with an aggregate target grant date value of $1 million, beginning with the annual grant made for fiscal year 2021. Pursuant to a letter agreement entered into in connection with Ms. Phillips employment agreement (the Phillips Letter Agreement), she received a one-time grant of TRSUs on December 16, 2019, with a value of $1.75 million, in connection with commencement of her employment. This one-time grant vests over four years in equal annual installments. Also on December 16, 2019, pursuant to the Phillips Letter Agreement, Ms. Phillips received her fiscal year 2020 LTMIP grant in the form of TRSUs with a value of $1.25 million, which is 125% of the annual long-term equity incentive target provided for in Ms. Phillips employment agreement. This grant also vests over four years in equal annual installments. Ms. Phillips base salary was increased to $787,500, effective January 1, 2021, and, beginning with fiscal year 2022, the aggregate target grant date value of annual equity compensation for which she is eligible increased to $1.2 million. In connection with the extension of her employment agreement through June 30, 2025, Ms. Phillips base salary was further increased to $925,000, effective April 11, 2022. Ms. Phillips employment agreement contains certain restrictive covenants, including non-solicitation covenants, non-competition covenants, covenants prohibiting interference with business relationships and covenants protecting confidential information. The agreement also provides for severance payments and benefits in the event that her employment is terminated by us without cause or by her with good reason, or, in certain circumstances, following non-extension of her employment agreement. 58 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION GRANTS OF PLAN-BASED AWARDS DURING 2021 The following table sets forth information concerning grants of awards under our incentive programs to the NEOs in fiscal year 2021. No equity-based awards were granted to NEOs in fiscal year 2021, as discussed below. Name Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards(1) Threshold ($) Target ($) Maximum ($) Robert M. Bakish 3,100,000 12,400,000 24,800,000 Naveen Chopra 525,000 2,100,000 4,200,000 Christa A. DAlimonte 390,625 1,562,500 3,125,000 Doretha F. Lea 227,888 911,550 1,823,100 Nancy Phillips 196,875 787,500 1,575,000 (1) Amounts reflect the range of potential bonus payments for each NEO from threshold to maximum based on the NEOs target opportunity, with threshold, target and maximum payouts amounting to 25%, 100% and 200% of the applicable NEOs target opportunity, respectively. Description of Plan-Based Awards The Compensation Committee approved fiscal year 2021 LTMIP awards on October 21, 2020, with grants to be made effective November 30, 2020, to eligible employees, including NEOs other than Mr. Chopra, who received his fiscal year 2021 LTMIP award in 100% TRSUs on August 24, 2020 in connection with the commencement of his employment by us. Due to the timing of the 2021 LTMIP award grants, those grants do not appear in the above table (they appeared in the corresponding table in our 2021 proxy statement). The number of TRSUs awarded for fiscal year 2021 was determined by dividing the value of the award by the closing price of a share of our Class B Common Stock on the date of grant, and the target number of PSUs granted was determined by dividing the target value of the award by the grant date fair value determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model for each of the three performance periods. For fiscal year 2022 LTMIP grants, the number of TRSUs awarded was determined by dividing the value of the award by the average closing price of a share of our Class B Common Stock over the 20-trading day period immediately preceding and including the grant date, and the target number of PSUs granted was determined by dividing the target value of the award by the grant date fair value determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model for the performance period. For other terms of these awards relating to performance goals and grant dates, see Compensation Discussion and Analysis — Long-Term Incentive Programs — Fiscal Year 2021 LTMIP Awards and — Equity Award Grant Date Procedures. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 59 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS AT FISCAL YEAR-END 2021 The following table sets forth the outstanding equity awards held by our NEOs on December 31, 2021, which included vested and unexercised stock options, unvested and unexercised stock options and unvested TRSUs and PSUs. Market values were calculated using the closing price of our Class B Common Stock on December 31, 2021, which was $30.18. Option Awards Stock Awards Name Grant Date Number of Securities Underlying Unexercised Options — Exercisable (#) Number of Securities Underlying Unexercised Options — Unexercisable (#)(1) Option Exercise Price ($) Option Expiration Date Number of Shares or Units of Stock Held That Have Not Vested (#)(2) Market Value of Shares or Units of Stock Held that Have Not Yet Vested ($) Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Number of Unearned Shares, Units or Other Rights That Have Not Yet Vested (#)(3) Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Market or Payout Value of Unearned Shares, Units or Other Rights That Have Not Yet Vested ($) Robert M. Bakish 5/21/2014 28,804 — 141.66 5/21/2022 — — — — 5/20/2015 43,641 — 110.56 5/20/2023 — — — — 5/18/2016 62,037 — 65.18 5/18/2024 — — — — 11/10/2016 76,517 — 63.75 11/10/2024 — — — — 1/9/2017 201,234 — 64.31 1/9/2025 — — — — 11/20/2017 437,775 — 43.90 11/20/2025 — — — — 11/30/2018 305,874 101,958 51.76 11/30/2026 — — — — 11/1/2019 — — — — 271,144 8,183,126 — — 12/5/2019 — — — — 61,184 1,846,533 — — 11/30/2020 — — — — 255,102 7,698,978 — — 11/30/2020 — — — — — — 97,675 2,947,832 Naveen Chopra 8/24/2020 — — — — 81,404 2,456,773 — — 8/24/2020 — — — — 122,106 3,685,159 — — Christa A. DAlimonte 5/21/2014 3,600 — 141.66 5/21/2022 — — — — 5/20/2015 6,546 — 110.56 5/20/2023 — — — — 5/18/2016 8,271 — 65.18 5/18/2024 — — — — 5/18/2017 27,976 — 57.01 5/18/2025 — — — — 1/31/2018 17,182 5,727 56.06 1/31/2026 — — — — 11/30/2018 20,188 6,729 51.76 11/30/2026 — — — — 1/31/2018 — — — — 1,969 59,424 — — 11/30/2018 — — — — 1,859 56,105 — — 11/1/2019 — — — — 37,070 1,118,773 — — 11/30/2020 — — — — 34,877 1,052,588 — — 11/30/2020 — — — — — — 13,354 403,024 Doretha F. Lea 5/21/2014 10,081 — 141.66 5/21/2022 — — — — 5/20/2015 15,274 — 110.56 5/20/2023 — — — — 5/18/2016 19,300 — 65.18 5/18/2024 — — — — 5/18/2017 19,479 — 57.01 5/18/2025 — — — — 1/31/2018 — 3,178 56.06 1/31/2026 — — — — 11/30/2018 4,282 4,282 51.76 11/30/2026 — — — — 60 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Option Awards Stock Awards Name Grant Date Number of Securities Underlying Unexercised Options — Exercisable (#) Number of Securities Underlying Unexercised Options — Unexercisable (#)(1) Option Exercise Price ($) Option Expiration Date Number of Shares or Units of Stock Held That Have Not Vested (#)(2) Market Value of Shares or Units of Stock Held that Have Not Yet Vested ($) Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Number of Unearned Shares, Units or Other Rights That Have Not Yet Vested (#)(3) Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Market or Payout Value of Unearned Shares, Units or Other Rights That Have Not Yet Vested ($) 1/31/2018 — — — — 1,093 32,987 — — 11/30/2018 — — — — 1,183 35,703 — — 11/1/2019 — — — — 12,710 383,588 — — 11/30/2020 — — — — 11,958 360,892 — — 11/30/2020 — — — — — — 4,579 138,194 Nancy Phillips 12/16/2019 — — — — 37,735 1,138,842 — — 11/30/2020 — — — — 15,944 481,190 — — 11/30/2020 — — — — — — 6,104 184,219 (1) Each option award vests 25% on each of the first four anniversaries of the date of grant. (2) Each stock award (other than PSUs) vests 25% on each of the first four anniversaries of the date of grant. (3) Represents the threshold number of outstanding PSUs granted in 2020. PSUs are eligible to vest based on achievement of the applicable TSR goals, on certification following the end of the applicable performance period, with three performance periods beginning on December 1, 2020 and ending on each of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th anniversaries of the grant date, respectively. OPTION EXERCISES AND STOCK VESTED DURING 2021 The following table sets forth information concerning the exercise of stock options and vesting of stock awards during 2021 for each of our NEOs. Option Awards Stock Awards Name Number of Shares Acquired on Exercise (#) Value Realized on Exercise ($) Number of Shares Acquired on Vesting (#)(1) Value Realized on Vesting ($)(2) Robert M. Bakish — — 362,437 13,027,393 Naveen Chopra — — 67,835 2,760,885 Christa A. DAlimonte — — 44,661 1,626,294 Doretha F. Lea 23,099 739,879 19,911 739,089 Nancy Phillips — — 24,183 725,634 (1) Represents RSUs that vested during 2021. The number of shares and value realized on vesting include shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations. The net shares delivered to each NEO with respect to RSUs after withholding for applicable taxes were: Mr. Bakish, 169,871; Mr. Chopra, 43,872; Ms. DAlimonte, 19,885; Ms. Lea, 10,415; and Ms. Phillips, 14,298. (2) Represents the number of shares underlying RSUs that vested in 2021, multiplied by the closing price of our Class B Common Stock on the applicable vesting date. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 61 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PENSION BENEFITS IN 2021 The following table sets forth information concerning each qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plan that provides payments in connection with retirement with respect to the NEOs who participate in any such plan. None of the below plans provided for accrual of benefits during 2021 for the NEOs; however, as shown below, the applicable NEOs had an accumulated benefit under such plans. None of the NEOs received payments under pension plans during 2021. Name Plan Name Number of Years Credited Service (#)(1) Present Value of Accumulated Benefit ($)(2) Payments During Last Fiscal Year ($) Robert M. Bakish Qualified—The Viacom Pension Plan 14.9 561,348 — Nonqualified—The Viacom Excess Pension Plan 11.2 1,237,668 — Doretha F. Lea Qualified—The Viacom Pension Plan 13.2 483,031 — Nonqualified—The Viacom Excess Pension Plan 9.4 812,584 — (1) Years of credited service for Mr. Bakish and Ms. Lea differ from actual years of service based on the date they satisfied age and service requirements under the applicable plan and the date benefit accruals were frozen under such plan (i.e., December 31, 2012 for the Viacom Pension Plan and April 1, 2009 for the Viacom Excess Pension Plan). These differences did not result in any increased benefits to the executives. (2) The present value of each of Mr. Bakish and Ms. Leas accumulated benefit on December 31, 2021 in the Viacom Pension Plan and the Viacom Excess Pension Plan was calculated assuming commencement of benefits at age 65, using a discount rate of 3.19%, and mortality rates in accordance with RPH-2015 mixed collar sex distinct table multiplied by 1.03 and with generational projection of MP-2020 with a 0.75% long-term improvement rate. (The modified generational improvement scale adopts all the parameter changes implemented and published by the Society of Actuaries for MP-2019 except for the ultimate improvement rate which under the modified improvement scale is 0.75% instead of 1.00%.) The present value of each of Mr. Bakishs and Ms. Leas accumulated benefit on December 31, 2021 in the Viacom Pension Plan reflects established assumptions regarding the form of payment elected by participants, specifically that 70% of retirement eligible participants elect lump sums and 30% elect life annuities and that 75% of vested eligible participants elect lump sums and 25% elect life annuities. As it relates to the present value of each of Mr. Bakishs and Ms. Leas accumulated benefit on December 31, 2021, the amount shown in the Viacom Excess Pension Plan assumes the grandfathered benefit under Section 409A of the Code is payable in the same form of payment as the benefit under the Viacom Pension Plan. The benefit accumulated after the implementation of Section 409A of the Code assumes 100% of participants elect life annuities. Description of Pension Benefits We currently maintain several qualified and nonqualified defined benefit plans as a result of various mergers, acquisitions and divestitures involving the Company and its various businesses, as well as changes implemented by the Company and its predecessors in retirement programs. All of the plans identified below have been frozen and closed to new participants. The normal retirement age for all Company-sponsored pension plans is 65. The Viacom Pension Plan We maintain the Viacom Pension Plan, a tax-qualified defined benefit plan for eligible employees who satisfied age and service requirements (including Mr. Bakish and Ms. Lea) prior to the Viacom Pension Plans closure to new participants and cessation of benefit accruals as of December 31, 2012. Participants are fully vested in their accrued benefit upon the completion of five years of vesting service. We pay the cost of the benefits provided under the Viacom Pension Plan. The normal forms of payment for a married or single participant are a 50% joint and survivor annuity or a single life annuity, respectively. The Viacom Pension Plan also offers a lump-sum distribution option. All optional forms of payment under the Viacom Pension Plan are actuarially equivalent to the normal forms of payment. A reduction is applied to the single life annuity benefit if an optional form is elected. If a participant in the Viacom Pension Plan has reached age 55 and has 10 or more years of vesting service (as is the case for Mr. Bakish and Ms. Lea), he or she is eligible for an early retirement benefit. The early retirement reduction ranges between 4% to 6% per year for each year the benefit begins between 65 and 55. The benefit formula for calculating an age 65 accrued benefit under the Viacom Pension Plan is equal to the sum of (i) the employees accrued benefit as of December 31, 2009 and (ii) the employees accrued benefit from January 1, 2010 62 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION through December 31, 2012. The benefit formula for part (i) is a monthly benefit payable in the form of a single life annuity at a normal retirement age of 65, determined by taking 1.25% times final average compensation up to the covered compensation amount, times benefit service (up to a maximum of 30 years), plus 1.75% times final average compensation above the covered compensation amount, times benefit service (up to a maximum of 30 years). The benefit formula for part (ii) is a single-sum benefit payable at a normal retirement age of 65 determined by taking 10% of the employees post-2009 accumulated compensation, adjusted annually during employment by a wage inflation factor (based on the annual increase in the Social Security Wage Base), with an annual cap of 4%. The Viacom Excess Pension Plan (the VEP) We also maintain the VEP, an unfunded nonqualified defined benefit plan, to provide benefits to employees (including Mr. Bakish and Ms. Lea) who participate in the Viacom Pension Plan and whose annual base salary exceeds the applicable eligible compensation for purposes of the Companys 401(k) Plan ($290,000 for 2021) (the Annual Limit). Effective April 1, 2009, further accruals were discontinued under the VEP. The benefits under the VEP are calculated by determining the excess, if any, of (i) the benefits that would be payable under the Viacom Pension Plan if it were not subject to the Annual Limit and (ii) the benefits actually payable under the Viacom Pension Plan. The maximum amount of total compensation earned on or before March 31, 2009 taken into account under the Viacom Pension Plan and the VEP together generally is $750,000. The normal and optional forms of payment for the benefit are the same under the VEP as under the Viacom Pension Plan; however, a lump sum option is not available for the portion accrued post-2004. We generally do not grant employees extra years of benefit service under the Viacom Pension Plan or the VEP for purposes of calculating a pension benefit. If a participant in the VEP has reached age 55 and has 10 or more years of vesting service (as is the case for Mr. Bakish and Ms. Lea), he or she is considered eligible for an early retirement benefit. The early retirement reduction is 6% per year for each year the benefit begins between ages 65 and 60, plus 4% per year for each year the benefit begins between 60 and 55. Unless an election was made in 2008, the benefit will begin at the later of age 55 and six months following the employees termination. NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION IN 2021 The following table sets forth information concerning nonqualified deferred compensation for 2021 for each of our NEOs. Name Plan Name Executive Contributions in Last Fiscal Year (1)($) Registrant Contributions in Last Fiscal Year (2)($) Aggregate Earnings in Last Fiscal Year (3)($) Aggregate Withdrawals / Distributions ($) Aggregate Balance at Last FYE ($) Robert M. Bakish Deferred Salary Plans — — 2,492,688 — 16,820,023 Deferred Bonus Plans — — 1,041,523 — 6,978,884 Naveen Chopra Deferred Salary Plans — — — — — Deferred Bonus Plans — — — — — Christa A. DAlimonte Deferred Salary Plans 115,250 14,087 113,039 — 1,250,820 Deferred Bonus Plans — — — — — Doretha F. Lea Deferred Salary Plans 110,166 11,301 218,248 — 1,490,023 Deferred Bonus Plans 59,356 — 39,743 — 285,479 Nancy Phillips Deferred Salary Plans 30,536 7,750 10,850 — 142,046 Deferred Bonus Plans — — — — — (1) Executive contributions pursuant to deferred salary and bonus plans are included in the Salary and Non-Equity Incentive Plan columns, respectively, in the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021. (2) Amounts reported are included in the All Other Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021. (3) Amounts reflect earnings or losses on all amounts deferred in 2021 and prior years in nonqualified plans, net of deductions for fees. No portion of these amounts is included in the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021, as none of these plans or arrangements provided for above-market or preferential earnings during 2021, as noted in footnote (5) to the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 63 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Description of Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Set forth below is information with respect to each plan under which deferrals of compensation are reflected in the table above. Deferred Salary Plan We maintain supplemental 401(k) plans, including the Viacom Excess 401(k) Plan for Designated Senior Executives (the Viacom Excess 401(k) Plan), an unfunded nonqualified deferred compensation plan intended to provide benefits to employees who are eligible to participate in a Company-sponsored 401(k) plan (Company 401(k) Plan), and whose annual base salary exceeds the Annual Limit. A participant can defer between 1% and 15% of his or her eligible compensation through payroll deductions on a pre-tax basis. Under the Viacom Excess 401(k) Plan, eligible compensation generally includes a participants base pay including all pre-tax elective contributions made on behalf of a participant either to a company qualified cash or deferred arrangement (as defined under Section 401(k) of the Code and applicable regulations), a cafeteria plan (as defined under Section 125 of the Code and applicable regulations) or a qualified transportation fringe (as defined under Section 132(f) of the Code and applicable regulations). Eligible compensation under the Viacom Excess 401(k) Plan does not include deferred compensation or cash bonuses under the Companys short-term incentive plan. In fiscal year 2021, eligible compensation contributed by a participant on a pre-tax basis was matched 100% of the first 1% and 50% of the next 5%. Matching contributions credited under the Viacom Excess 401(k) Plan for any participant were subject to an eligible compensation limit of $500,000. Participants become fully vested in the matching contribution after two years of service. Participant accounts under the Viacom Excess 401(k) Plan are credited (or charged) with earnings, gains or losses based on the investment performance of the funds selected by the participant for amounts contributed to the Company 401(k) Plan. The vested portion of a participants Viacom Excess 401(k) Plan account is distributed in cash after termination of employment in accordance with the participants distribution election, either in a lump sum payment or in installment payments. Deferred Bonus Plan We maintain the Viacom Bonus Deferral Plan for Designated Senior Executives (the Viacom BDP), an unfunded nonqualified deferred compensation plan intended to provide benefits to employees who are eligible to participate in a Company 401(k) Plan, and whose annual base salary exceeds the Annual Limit. Participants can defer between 1% and 15% of their short-term incentive plan bonus to the Viacom BDP on a pre-tax basis. Participant accounts under the Viacom BDP are credited (or charged) with earnings, gains or losses based on the investment performance of the funds selected by the participant for amounts contributed to a Company 401(k) Plan. Amounts deferred under the Viacom BDP are distributed in cash after termination of employment in accordance with the participants distribution election, either in a lump sum payment or installment payments. Matching contributions are not made under the Viacom BDP. POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION AND CERTAIN OTHER EVENTS Potential Payments Pursuant to Arrangements with NEOs As of December 31, 2021, all of our NEOs had employment agreements providing for payments upon certain terminations of employment. The table below sets forth estimated potential payments that would have been made to each NEO if his or her employment had terminated as of December 31, 2021 under certain circumstances. We have assumed in all cases that the NEO has complied and continues to comply with all of the restrictive and other covenants included in his or her employment agreement and has not become employed by a new employer in those cases where the employment agreement requires offset of severance amounts or benefits. The following table reflects the incremental payments and benefits due to the executive in connection with (i) such executives termination without Cause or resignation with Good Reason (each, a qualifying termination) or (ii) such executives termination as a result of his or her death or disability, in each case, assuming a termination on December 31, 2021. These amounts represent payments and benefits beyond what the NEO earned and those that were no longer subject to vesting conditions, as of December 31, 2021, and do not reflect benefits that are provided pursuant to plans or arrangements that do not discriminate in favor of executive officers and are available generally to all salaried employees (such as amounts accrued under the 401(k) plans, disability benefits and accrued vacation pay) or that are set forth in the Nonqualified Deferred Compensation in 2021 table or Pension Benefits in 2021 table (such as amounts under Excess Plans and accumulated and vested benefits under our pension plans). 64 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION No NEO would receive incremental payments or other benefits if they resigned from the Company without Good Reason or were terminated by the Company for Cause. None of the employment agreements with our NEOs in effect as of December 31, 2021 provides for payments and benefits solely in the event of a change-in-control or enhanced payments or benefits upon a termination in connection with a change-in-control. Each of the NEOs employment agreements provides that if, at the time of a qualifying termination, there is in effect a severance plan for which the applicable executive is eligible that provides for more favorable severance payments and benefits than those set forth in the executives employment agreement, then the executives severance amounts will be automatically adjusted to those amounts. As of December 31, 2021, no NEO participated in any such severance plan. Termination Scenario Continuation of Salary and Other Cash Compensation ($)(2) Annual Bonus Continuation ($)(3) Continuation of Medical, Dental & Life Insurance ($)(4) Outplacement Assistance ($)(5) Total Acceleration/ Continuation of Equity Awards ($)(6) Total ($) Robert M. Bakish Termination without Cause or for Good Reason(1) 6,200,000 24,800,000 78,188 5,895 21,413,404 52,497,487 Death or Disability — — — — 21,413,404 21,413,404 Naveen Chopra Termination without Cause or for Good Reason(1) 2,250,769 3,376,154 54,650 5,895 6,141,932 11,829,401 Death or Disability — — — — 6,141,932 6,141,932 Christa A. DAlimonte Termination without Cause or for Good Reason(1) 1,250,000 1,442,308 33,784 5,895 1,188,217 3,920,204 Death — — — — 2,790,624 2,790,624 Disability — — — — 1,556,322 1,556,322 Doretha F. Lea Termination without Cause or for Good Reason(1) 911,550 841,431 33,306 5,895 436,463 2,228,644 Death — — — — 985,860 985,860 Disability — — — — 533,582 533,582 Nancy Phillips Termination without Cause or for Good Reason(1) 787,500 723,894 10,512 5,895 898,972 2,426,773 Death — — — — 1,850,275 1,850,275 Disability — — — — 711,433 711,433 (1) Amounts reflect payments pursuant to the NEOs employment agreement. (2) Amounts reflect (i) for Mr. Bakish, continuation of his base salary amount for 24 months, (ii) for Mr. Chopra, continuation of his base salary amount through the end of the term of his contract period on August 9, 2023, and (iii) for Mses. DAlimonte, Lea and Phillips, continuation of the applicable executives annual base salary for 12 months. (3) Amounts reflect (i) for Mr. Bakish, two times his target bonus, (ii) for Mr. Chopra, approximately one and three-fifths times his target bonus, representing his full target bonus with respect to 2022 and a pro-rata target bonus with respect to 2023 based on the end of his contract period, and (iii) for Mses. DAlimonte, Lea and Phillips, a pro-rata target bonus with respect to 2022 based on the end of the applicable executives contract period. Since a December 31, 2021 termination date is assumed, pro-rated bonus amounts for 2021 are not included as Annual Bonus Continuation and the executives full annual bonus would have been paid in the amount disclosed in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021, in accordance with the terms of the Companys STIP. (4) Amounts reflect our cost of providing continued health insurance benefits and life insurance coverage as provided in the executives respective employment agreements. (5) Amounts reflect our cost of providing outplacement services for a maximum period of 6 months following termination of employment, in accordance with our practice of providing outplacement services to executives with employment agreements who are terminated without Cause. (6) The calculation of the value associated with the acceleration of the vesting of outstanding equity awards (i) in the case of stock awards, was based on the closing price of our Class B Common Stock on December 31, 2021 of $30.18, and (ii) in the case of options, was based on the difference between such closing price and the exercise price of the option. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 65 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Termination Without Cause by the Company or for Good Reason by the NEOs Bakish Mr. Bakish would have received the following termination payments and benefits if we terminated his employment without Cause or if he terminated his employment with us for Good Reason pursuant to his employment agreement in effect as of December 31, 2021, subject to execution of a release: • subject to an overall cap of two times the sum of his base salary and target bonus amount, salary payable until the second anniversary of termination, at the same time that it would have been paid had he remained employed, and an annual bonus at his target bonus amount as if he had remained employed through the second anniversary of termination, payable at the same time and in the same manner as the salary payments; • Company-paid medical and dental benefits for the longer of the remainder of the contract period and 24 months, or until the time that he becomes covered by another employers plan, if earlier; • Company-paid life insurance until the end of the contract term, or, if longer, the end of the period that the executive is receiving cash severance payments, or until the time that he becomes eligible under another employers plan, if earlier; and • full vesting of all outstanding equity awards, with performance for any PSUs for which the performance period is not yet complete deemed achieved at a target level and outstanding stock options remaining exercisable for two years following the termination of employment or, if later, as provided under the applicable long-term incentive plan, but in no event later than the original expiration date of the stock option. Mr. Bakishs employment agreement also provides that, in connection with a qualifying termination, subject to the execution of a release, he would be entitled to a pro-rated annual bonus for the year of termination of employment, paid at the lesser of his target amount or the target amount modified by the Company performance factor. However, based on the assumption that Mr. Bakish remained employed through the end of the calendar year, he would have received his full annual bonus in the amount disclosed in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021 in lieu of a pro-rated bonus, in accordance with the terms of our STIP as in effect on December 31, 2021. Chopra, DAlimonte, Lea and Phillips Mr. Chopra and Mses. DAlimonte, Lea and Phillips would have received the following termination payments and benefits if we terminated his or her employment without Cause or if he or she terminated his or her employment with us for Good Reason pursuant to the applicable executives employment agreement in effect as of December 31, 2021, subject to execution of a release: • subject to an overall cap of two times the sum of the applicable executives base salary and target bonus amount, salary payable until the later of the (x) first anniversary of termination or (y) end of the contract term, at the same time that it would have been paid had the executive remained employed, and an annual bonus and/or pro-rated bonus for each remaining year of the contract term at the lesser of the executives target amount or the target amount modified by the Company performance factor; • for Mr. Chopra, pursuant to the Chopra Letter Agreement and his employment agreement, full acceleration of both equity grants he received on August 24, 2020, for Ms. DAlimonte, acceleration of outstanding equity awards that would have vested during the longer of the contract term and the 18-month period following her termination, for Ms. Phillips, pursuant to the Phillips Letter Agreement and her employment agreement, acceleration of the one-time equity grant she received on December 19, 2019 and acceleration of her other outstanding equity awards that would have vested during the contract term (i.e., through December 1, 2022) and for Ms. Lea, acceleration of outstanding equity awards that would have vested during the contract term (i.e., through December 4, 2022) — in each case with performance for any PSUs for which the performance period is not yet complete deemed achieved at a target level and, for Ms. DAlimonte, with outstanding stock options remaining exercisable for 6 months following the termination date or, if later, as provided under the applicable long-term incentive plan, but in no event later than the original expiration date of the stock option; • Company-paid medical and dental benefits for the longer of the remainder of the contract period and 12 months, or until the time that the executive becomes covered by another employers plan, if earlier; and 66 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION • Company-paid life insurance until the end of the contract term, or, if longer, the end of the period that the executive is receiving cash severance payments, or until the time that the executive becomes eligible under another employers plan, if earlier. The severance payments are subject to offset, with respect to the period beginning 12 months after termination and ending when the Company is no longer required to make severance payments, to the extent that the executive is receiving other compensation for the executives services. Under the terms of the applicable employment agreement, the executives are subject to certain restrictive covenants, including non-competition and non-solicitation of Company employees, and protection of our confidential information. Definition of Cause: • A termination for Cause for each of the NEOs generally would have been triggered by one of the following: engaging in embezzlement, fraud or other conduct that would constitute a felony; engaging in conduct that would constitute a financial crime, material act of dishonesty or material unethical business conduct, involving Paramount; engaging in the willful unauthorized disclosure of confidential information; failure to obey a material lawful directive that was appropriate to his or her position from an executive or executives in his or her reporting line; committing a material breach of his or her employment agreement; failure (except in the event of disability) or refusal to substantially perform material obligations under his or her employment agreement; willful failure to cooperate with a bona fide internal investigation or investigation by regulatory or law enforcement authorities, after being instructed by Paramount to cooperate; willful destruction or failure to preserve documents or other material known to be relevant to such an investigation; or willful inducement of others to engage in certain of the conduct described above or to otherwise breach their obligations to Paramount. The full definition of Cause, and the provisions relating to the ability to cure such conduct, is set forth in the applicable executives employment agreement. Definition of Good Reason: • For Mr. Bakish, a termination with Good Reason generally would have been triggered by one of the following: his removal as President and Chief Executive Officer of Paramount; his removal from or failure to be re-elected to the Board; his no longer serving as the highest ranking executive of Paramount; the assignment to him of duties or responsibilities substantially inconsistent with his position(s) or duties; any change in reporting such that he does not report solely and directly to the Board; the material reduction in his position, title, offices, authorities, duties or responsibilities; the reduction of his salary, target bonus or target long-term incentive compensation amount; the material breach by Paramount of any material obligation under his employment agreement or any material compensation agreement; the relocation of his position outside the greater New York City metropolitan area; Paramount no longer being a public company or failure to extend the term of his employment. The full definition of Good Reason is set forth in the employment agreement with Mr. Bakish. • For Mr. Chopra and Mses. DAlimonte, Lea and Phillips, a termination with Good Reason generally would have been triggered by one of the following: assignment of duties inconsistent with his or her current position or duties; diminution or withdrawal of his or her duties (including, for Mr. Chopra as the Chief Financial Officer of a publicly-traded company); material breach of material obligations under the executives employment agreement, and, in the cases of Mr. Chopra and Ms. DAlimonte, a material reduction of compensation. For Ms. Lea, Good Reason also includes the relocation of her position outside the greater Washington D.C. metropolitan area. The full definition of Good Reason is set forth in the applicable executives employment agreement. Termination Due to Disability of the NEOs If any of the NEOs had been terminated on December 31, 2021 due to disability, the applicable executive would have received accrued benefits payable through the date of termination and, pursuant to the terms of the applicable equity award agreements, Messrs. Bakish and Chopra would have received accelerated vesting of their outstanding equity awards and Mses. DAlimonte, Lea and Phillips would have received accelerated vesting of their November 30, 2020 equity awards, in each case assuming target performance for any PSUs for which the performance period was not yet complete. The NEOs employment agreements also provide for the applicable executive to receive a pro-rated annual bonus for the year of termination of employment, paid at the lesser of the executives target amount or the target amount modified by the Company performance factor. However, based on the assumption that the applicable executive remained employed through the end of the calendar year, he or she would have received his or her full annual bonus in the amount disclosed in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021 in lieu of a pro-rated bonus, in accordance with the terms of our STIP as in effect on December 31, 2021. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 67 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Termination Due to Death of the NEOs If any of the NEOs were to have died on December 31, 2021, the applicable executives beneficiary or estate would have received accrued benefits payable through the date of death and, pursuant to the terms of the applicable equity award documents, accelerated vesting of the applicable NEOs outstanding equity awards, in each case assuming target performance for any PSUs for which the performance period was not yet complete. The NEOs employment agreements also provide for the applicable executive to receive a pro-rated annual bonus for the year of termination of employment, paid at the lesser of the executives target amount or the target amount modified by the Company performance factor. However, based on the assumption that the applicable executive remained employed through the end of the calendar year, he or she would have received his or her full annual bonus in the amount disclosed in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021 in lieu of a pro-rated bonus, in accordance with the terms of our STIP as in effect on December 31, 2021. PAY RATIO As required by applicable SEC rules, we are providing the following information about the relationship of the annual total compensation of our employees and the annual total compensation of Mr. Bakish, our President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The CEO pay ratio figures below are a reasonable estimate calculated in a manner consistent with SEC rules and the methodology described below. For 2021, our last completed fiscal year, the annual total compensation of the median employee was $94,580 and the annual total compensation of the CEO was $20,056,463. The annual total compensation for our median employee and for the CEO for these purposes includes our cost of health insurance premiums, which was not included in the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 2021. For 2021, the ratio of the annual total compensation of the CEO to the annual total compensation of the median employee was 212 to 1. As permitted under SEC rules, we used the same median employee that we used for purposes of disclosing our 2020 pay ratio as there has been no change in our employee population or employee compensation arrangements that we believe would significantly impact the pay ratio analysis. As described in our 2020 Proxy Statement: • Our employee population on December 31, 2020 consisted of approximately 26,800 individuals, consisting of full-time, part-time and temporary employees, working for us and our consolidated subsidiaries. As permitted under the applicable SEC de minimis rule, we excluded certain non-U.S. employees from our employee population, which collectively amounted to less than 5% of our total number of employees. The jurisdictions and numbers of employees excluded on this basis were Canada (77), China (80), Denmark (44), France (135), Germany (119), Hong Kong (12), India (19), Israel (82), Italy (121), Japan (44), Mexico (129), New Zealand (9), Portugal (11), Russia (64), Singapore (104), South Africa (49), Sweden (35), Taiwan (6), United Arab Emirates (18), and the following countries with five or fewer employees: Belgium, Colombia, Czech Republic, Finland, Ireland, Korea, Nigeria, and the Philippines. • To identify the median employee from our employee population, we used W-2 Box 1 amounts (and the foreign equivalent for our non-U.S. employees) as our consistently applied compensation measure. • Exchange rates were applied as of the determination date to convert all non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars. • Based on the estimated compensation of each employee, we identified a band of employees with the approximate median estimated compensation value (the Median Band). • We then identified the median employee from the employees within the Median Band and calculated that employees annual total compensation in accordance with applicable SEC rules. 68 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2021 concerning shares of our Class B Common Stock authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans. In connection with the Merger, we assumed certain equity compensation plans that have not been approved by our security holders but that were approved by the security holders of Viacom before the Merger. No shares of our Class A Common Stock are authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans. Plan Category Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (a) Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (b) Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1) 8,085,261(2) $59.25(3) 37,659,241(4) Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders(5) 6,220,341(6) $68.41(3) —(7) Total: 8,085,261 $63.85(3) 37,659,241 (1) Equity compensation plans approved by our security holders include the following: our 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, our 2000 Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors and our 2015 Equity Plan for Outside Directors. (2) Consists of outstanding options and restricted stock units, including 216,123 vested restricted stock units for which settlement has been deferred. (3) The weighted-average exercise price is calculated based solely on the exercise price of outstanding options and does not take into account outstanding restricted stock units, which have no exercise price. (4) Includes 37,007,559 shares of our Class B Common Stock available for future awards (other than options and stock appreciation rights) under our 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan and 651,682 shares of Class B Common Stock available for future awards under our 2015 Equity Plan for Outside Directors. (5) In connection with the Merger, effective December 4, 2019, we assumed the following equity compensation plans that had been approved by Viacoms security holders but have not been approved by our security holders: the Viacom Inc. 2016 Long-Term Management Incentive Plan (the Viacom LTMIP) and the Viacom Inc. 2011 RSU Plan for Outside Directors, as amended and restated as of January 1, 2016 and as further amended and restated as of October 31, 2016 (the Viacom Outside Director Plan). (6) Consists of outstanding options and restricted stock units, including 156,240 vested restricted stock units for which settlement has been deferred. (7) In connection with assuming these plans, we assumed the pool of authorized but unissued shares available for future issuances under the Viacom LTMIP and the Viacom Outside Director Plan, as adjusted pursuant to the Exchange Ratio (as defined in the Merger Agreement). The Viacom LTMIP and the Viacom Outside Director Plan expired on December 31, 2020 and January 1, 2021, respectively, and no shares remain available for future awards thereunder. 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 69 Item 3 — Stockholder Proposal Requesting that Our Board of Directors Take Steps to Reduce the Threshold At Which Stockholders May Call a Special Meeting In accordance with Exchange Act Rule 14a-8, set forth below is a proposal that was submitted to us by a stockholder proponent. Upon receiving an oral or written request, we will promptly provide the name and address of the proponent. A representative of the proponent has represented to us that the proponent has continuously held at least 500 shares of our Class A Common Stock for at least one year and will continue to hold these securities through the date of the Annual Meeting. For the proposal to be voted on at the Annual Meeting, the proponent or a qualified representative of the proponent must attend the meeting and present the proposal. The Company and the Board of Directors disclaim any responsibility for the content of the proposal and the statement in support of the proposal, which are presented in the form received from the proponent. STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL Proposal 3 – Special Shareholder Meeting Improvement Shareholders ask our board to take the necessary steps to amend the appropriate company governing documents to give the owners of a combined 25% of our outstanding common stock the power to call a special shareholder meeting. It now takes a theoretical 50.1% of all shares outstanding to call for a special shareholder meeting, this translates into 55% of the ViacomCBS shares that typically vote at the annual meeting. It would be hopeless to think that the shares that do not have the time to vote at the annual meeting would have the time to take the special procedural steps to call for a special shareholder meeting. Plus a group of 55% shareholders who went through the special procedures to call for a special shareholder meeting would likely represent support from more than 67% of shares because many shareholders do not have the time to take the special procedural steps to call for a special shareholder meeting even though they would support calling for a special shareholder meeting. Plus it is easy to make small disqualifying paperwork errors in calling for a special shareholder meeting although a shareholder may be completely eligible to participate in calling for a special shareholder meeting. Thus the current face value of a 50.1% stock ownership requirement can easily represent support from 67% of shares – a high bar. Please vote yes: FOR Special Shareholder Meeting Improvement – Proposal 3 COMPANY RESPONSE TO STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL The Board has thoroughly reviewed and considered this proposal and, for the reasons discussed below, the Board recommends that you vote against this proposal. Our Corporate Governance and Shareholder Engagement Practices Ensure Board Accountability and Give Shareholders Meaningful Opportunities to be Heard Our current corporate governance practices and shareholder outreach efforts ensure the Boards accountability to, and alignment with, stockholders while enabling the Board to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for stockholders long-term benefit. For example: • Stockholders are able to: • Communicate directly with non-management directors and the Board using dedicated electronic and physical mailing addresses; 70 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL ITEM 3 — STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL REQUESTING THAT OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS TAKE STEPS TO REDUCE THE THRESHOLD AT WHICH STOCKHOLDERS MAY CALL A SPECIAL MEETING • Propose director nominees to the Nominating and Governance Committee; and • Submit nominations of director candidates and proposals for consideration at our annual meetings, subject to the conditions set forth in our Bylaws. In fact, at our 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, a stockholder was able to discuss a proposal that he had submitted for inclusion in the Companys proxy statement for that meeting. • Even though we are a controlled company and therefore exempt from certain board independence requirements under Nasdaqs listing rules, we nonetheless have a majority of independent directors on our Board, and each Board committee is comprised entirely of independent directors. • Currently, 9 of 12 directors are independent, and only one director is a member of management. • Each member of our Board is elected annually and serves for a one-year term. • Board members have full and unrestricted access to management and other employees. • The Board and each committee may hire independent legal, financial or other advisors as they deem appropriate. • Board members are subject to meaningful stock ownership requirements. We conduct stockholder outreach on a regular basis to inform our management and Board about the governance and other issues that matter most to our stockholders. These efforts include meetings with individual and group investors, presentations at investor and industry conferences and responding to investor emails and telephone calls, providing access to our representatives and a forum for providing feedback. We also meet with our largest investors throughout the year. Management reports to the Board regularly on stockholder engagement efforts so that the Board is kept fully informed of stockholder concerns. Our Existing Threshold Mitigates the Risk of Misuse of the Special Meeting Right for Special Interests Not Supported by a Majority of Our Stockholders or Special Meetings that Would not Provide Sufficient Benefit to Justify the Significant Time and Expense Involved with Special Meetings Organization of, and preparation for, a special stockholder meeting imposes considerable legal and administrative costs and diverts our directors and managements time and attention from our business operations and the creation of stockholder value. Our bylaws provide that holders of record of at least 50.1% of the aggregate voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, acting together as a single class, may call a special meeting. This threshold aligns with the fact that National Amusements, Inc. owns a sufficient number of shares of our Class A Voting Stock to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including amending our bylaws, the election or removal of directors and transactions involving a change of control. The existing threshold avoids wasteful expenditure of time and resources on special meetings that may promote agenda items unlikely to receive sufficient stockholder support to pass. Our stockholders who may have different interests are unable to affect the outcome of any such corporate actions for so long as National Amusements retains voting control. A lower threshold may result in frequent special meetings that are unlikely to effect any change, and it is in our stockholders best interests to avoid such undue expense and disruption to the Company. In addition, the threshold requirement to call a special meeting recommended by this proposal is not in the best interests of our stockholders because a lower threshold would increase the potential for misuse of the right. In light of the substantial administrative and financial burdens that they impose, special stockholder meetings are intended to be extraordinary events that occur to address urgent and imperative strategic matters or serious fiduciary concerns on an expedited basis. Our current threshold is aligned with limiting the use of our stockholder special meeting right to address such matters, by ensuring that special meetings are called only for matters of importance to stockholders representing a substantial percentage of the voting power of our capital stock. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS A VOTE AGAINST THIS ITEM 3 2022 PROXY STATEMENT 71 Other Matters In an effort to reduce the amount of paper mailed to stockholders homes and to help lower our printing and postage costs, stockholders who receive printed copies of our proxy materials can elect to receive future copies of these documents electronically instead of by mail. We highly recommend that you consider electronic delivery of these documents, and you can enroll at http:;enroll.icsdelivery.com/para. You can always change your mind and resume receiving copies of these documents by mail by revisiting this website and selecting change/cancel existing enrollment form. We also use a procedure approved by the SEC called householding, under which we are permitted to deliver a single copy of a Notice of Internet Availability (or a single set of proxy materials, if you requested a printed copy) to stockholders sharing the same address, under certain conditions, unless we receive contrary instructions from any stockholder at that address. If you wish to receive an additional copy of our proxy materials this year, you may submit a written request to 1515 Broadway, New York, NY 10036, Attention: Christa A. DAlimonte, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, or call Investor Relations at 1-877-227-0787. You may also request copies of our proxy materials for this year and future years by submitting a request on the Investors—Shareholder Services, Alerts, & FAQs page of our website at ir.paramount.com. If you received more than one copy of the Notice of Internet Availability (or the proxy materials, if you requested a printed copy), you may request delivery of a single copy of these materials in the future through the same methods of contact noted above. 2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders Stockholder proposals may be submitted for inclusion in our proxy statement relating to the 2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, as long as they are received no later than December 16, 2022 at our principal executive offices at 1515 Broadway, New York, NY 10036-5794, Attention: Christa A. DAlimonte, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws generally require advance written notice from a stockholder seeking to present any business or proposal, not for inclusion in next years proxy statement but directly at the 2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, including nominations of persons for election to our Board of Directors. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Bylaws, notice must be received at our principal executive offices at 1515 Broadway, New York, NY 10036- 5794, Attention: Christa A. DAlimonte, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, no earlier than the close of business on February 8, 2023, and no later than the close of business on March 10, 2023. By order of the Board of Directors, Christa A. DAlimonte Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy Materials for the Annual Meeting We have sent or are sending the Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, which indicates that this Notice of 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement, our Stockholder Letter and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, with financial statements and schedules thereto, are available at www.proxyvote.com. If you wish to receive paper or e-mail copies of any of these materials, please follow the instructions on your Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials. We will also provide a printed copy of these materials without charge (a reasonable fee will be charged for exhibits) upon receipt of a written request sent to Christa A. DAlimonte, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Paramount Global, 1515 Broadway, New York, NY 10036-5794. 72 PARAMOUNT GLOBAL 1515 BROADWAY NEW YORK, NY 10036 SCAN TO VIEW MATERIALS & VOTE w VOTE BY INTERNET Before The Meeting - Go to www.proxyvote.com or scan the QR Barcode above Use the Internet to transmit your voting instructions up until 11:59 P.M., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 7, 2022 (June 5, 2022 for 401(k) Plan participants). Have this proxy card in hand when you access the website and follow the instructions. During The Meeting—Go to www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PARA2022 You may attend the meeting via the Internet and vote during the meeting. Have the information that is printed in the box marked by the arrow available and follow the instructions. VOTE BY PHONE—1-800-690-6903 If you live in the United States or Canada, use any touch-tone telephone to transmit your voting instructions up until 11:59 P.M., Eastern Daylight Time, on June 7, 2022 (June 5, 2022 for 401(k) Plan participants). Have this proxy card in hand when you call and then follow the recorded instructions. Your Internet or telephone vote authorizes the proxy holders to vote the shares represented by this proxy in the same manner as if you returned the proxy card. If you have submitted your proxy by the Internet or telephone, there is no need for you to return this proxy card. VOTE BY MAIL Mark, sign and date this proxy card and return it in the postage-paid envelope we have provided or return it to Paramount Global, c/o Broadridge, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgewood, NY 11717, so that it is received prior to the Annual Meeting on June 8, 2022. TO VOTE, MARK BLOCKS BELOW IN BLUE OR BLACK INK AS FOLLOWS: D72526-TBD KEEP THIS PORTION FOR YOUR RECORDS THIS PROXY CARD IS VALID ONLY WHEN SIGNED AND DATED. DETACH AND RETURN THIS PORTION ONLY PARAMOUNT GLOBAL THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS A VOTE FOR ALL LISTED DIRECTOR NOMINEES. 1. The election of 12 directors: For Against Abstain Nominees: 1a. Robert M. Bakish 1b. Candace K. Beinecke 1c. Barbara M. Byrne 1d. Linda M. Griego 1e. Robert N. Klieger 1f. Judith A. McHale 1g. Ronald L. Nelson 1h. Charles E. Phillips, Jr. 1i. Shari E. Redstone 1j. Susan Schuman 1k. Nicole Seligman 1l. Frederick O. Terrell THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS A VOTE FOR For Against Abstain MATTER 2. 2. Ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to serve as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2022. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS A VOTE For Against Abstain AGAINST MATTER 3. 3. A stockholder proposal requesting that our Board of Directors take steps to reduce the threshold at which Company stockholders may call a special meeting, if properly presented at the Annual Meeting. Please sign exactly as your name or names appear(s) on this proxy card. When shares are held jointly, each holder should sign. When signing as executor, administrator, attorney, trustee or guardian, please give full title as such. If the signer is a corporation, please sign full corporate name by duly authorized officer, giving full title as such. If signer is a partnership, please sign in partnership name by authorized person. Signature [PLEASE SIGN WITHIN BOX] Date Signature (Joint Owners) Date Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy Materials for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders: The Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, Form 10-K and Letter to Stockholders are available at www.proxyvote.com. D72527-TBD 1515 Broadway New York, NY 10036 2022 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS TO BE HELD ON JUNE 8, 2022 The undersigned stockholder(s) hereby appoint(s) each of ROBERT M. BAKISH and CHRISTA A. DALIMONTE, as proxy holders, each with the power to appoint his or her substitute, and authorize(s) each of them individually to represent and to vote all of the shares of Class A Common Stock of Paramount Global that the stockholder(s) is/are entitled to vote at the 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held at 9:30 A.M., Eastern Daylight Time, on Wednesday, June 8, 2022, by live webcast at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/PARA2022, and at any adjournments or postponements thereof. THIS PROXY IS SOLICITED ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF PARAMOUNT GLOBAL. THIS PROXY, WHEN PROPERLY EXECUTED AND TIMELY RECEIVED PRIOR TO THE MEETING, WILL BE VOTED AS DIRECTED HEREIN BY THE UNDERSIGNED STOCKHOLDER(S). The close of business on April 11, 2022 has been fixed as the record date for determining the holders of shares of Paramount Global Class A Common Stock entitled to notice of and to vote at the Annual Meeting and any adjournments or postponements thereof. For a period of at least ten days prior to the Annual Meeting, a complete list of stockholders entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting will be open to the examination of any stockholder during ordinary business hours by calling Investor Relations at 1-877-227-0787. with the You Board are encouraged of Directors to recommendations. specify your choices The by Board marking of the Directors appropriate recommends boxes, but a vote you FOR need matters not mark (1) and any boxes (2) and if AGAINST you wish matter to vote (3) in .accordance Therefore, unless as directed otherwise herein specified, and in their the discretion votes represented on all other by this matters proxy as will may be properly cast FOR come matters before (1) and the (2) meeting, and AGAINST or any adjournment matter (3). The or proxy postponement holders shall thereof. vote Attention participants in the 401(k) Plans: If shares of Paramount Global Class A Common Stock are held through a 401(k) Plan, you should complete, sign and return this proxy card to instruct the trustee of the Plan how to vote these shares. Your proxy must be received no later than 11:59 P.M., Eastern Daylight Time, on Sunday, June 5, 2022, so that the trustee of the Plan (who votes the shares on behalf of Plan participants) has adequate time to tabulate the voting instructions. Your voting instructions will be kept confidential. Any shares of Paramount Global Class A Common Stock held in a 401(k) Plan that are not voted or for which the trustee does not receive timely voting instructions will be voted by the trustee in the same proportion as the shares held in the Plan that are timely voted. PLEASE MARK, SIGN, DATE AND RETURN THIS PROXY CARD PROMPTLY USING THE ENCLOSED REPLY ENVELOPE."
"Paramount";"Earnings Transcript";"Corrected Transcript 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com Total Pages : 32 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 15 - Feb - 2022 ViacomCBS, Inc. ( V IAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 2 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. Shari Ellen Redstone Non - Executive Chairman, ViacomCBS, Inc. Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thomas V. Ryan President & Chief Executive Officer - ViacomCBS Streaming, ViacomCBS, Inc. Tanya Giles Chief Programming Officer - Streaming, ViacomCBS, Inc. Brian Robbins President and Chief Executive Officer - Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon & Chief Content Officer - Movies and Kids & Family, ParamountPlus, ViacomCBS, Inc. George Cheeks President & Chief Executive Officer - CBS & Chief Content Officer - News and Sports, ParamountPlus, ViacomCBS, Inc. Chris McCarthy President & Chief Executive Officer - Media Networks & Chief Content Officer - Unscripted Entertainment and Adult Animation, ParamountPlus, ViacomCBS, Inc. David Nevins Chief Content Officer - Scripted Originals, ParamountPlus & Chairman & Chief E xecutive Officer - Showtime Networks Inc., ViacomCBS, Inc. Maria Panayiotis Kyriacou President - ViacomCBS Networks International Australia, Israel and UK, ViacomCBS, Inc. Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. OTHER PARTICIPANTS Michael Morris Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC Bryan Kraft Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. Brett Feldman Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Benjamin Swinburne Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC Rich Greenfield Analyst, Lightshed Ventures John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Jason Boisvert Bazinet Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. Steven Cahall Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 3 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION S ECTION Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. Good afternoon. My name is Anthony DiClemente, Head of Investor Relations. It is my pleasure to welcome you to our Investor Event and Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2021 Earnings Presentation. Before we begin, please note that in addition to our earnings release, we have trending schedules containing supplemental information available on our website. We would like to remind you that certain statements made in todays presentation are forward - looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in more detail in our filings with the SEC. Some of todays financial remarks will focus on adjusted results. Reconciliations of these non - GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings release or in our trending schedules, which contain supplemental information and in each case can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website. With that being said, I would like to thank you for taking the time to join us this afternoon. And now, sit back, relax and enjoy the show. [Video Presentation] (00:01:08 - 00:03:23) Shari Ellen Redstone Non - Executive Chairman, ViacomCBS, Inc. Good afternoon from Kaufman Studios, the orig inal New York home of Paramount Studios. Thank you for joining us and welcome to our investor event. Ive never been more excited about the future of this company than I am today. And during todays program, you will see exactly why because we are on the a scent and we are reaching for new heights. Today, we will show you that with the power of our people, the power of our content, and the power of our platforms, we are built to grow to drive shareholder value and to lead our industry forward. Two years aft er we brought together Viacom and CBS and one year since we last convened, we are keeping our promises. We are consistently outperforming our goals ahead of schedule, from growth in our subscriber base to growth in brand recognition and growth in operating revenue. We are doing it all faster than anyone expected, and we are delivering win after win after win. This does not happen by accident. We are winning with one team loaded with talent, creativity and expertise, and one integrated company that is greater than the sum of its parts. We are winning with hits that connect with audiences across all demographics and in markets around the world, and we are winning with our unique differentiated streaming services in free, pay and premium. And of course, I have to give a call out to ParamountPlus, which in less than a year has established itself as a leading brand in the industry. Our strategy has always been to harness the strength of our traditional business to build something new with our world - class conte nt fueling our growth. This is what sets us apart as a company and positions us to succeed. We are making the right investments in the right content in the right places, and we are confident based on our track record of successes over the past two years th at we can deliver the return on investment that you expect and ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 4 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC deserve. We have set in motion a virtuous cycle. Our legacy business powers our transformation, and our transformation enhances and expands our legacy. We have so much to be proud of, so much to be optimistic about, and we are just getting started. The opportunity we see ahead across our brands is my dads vision come to life, one powerful company that creates content that keeps audiences wanting more. And Paramount was always at the core of th is vision. For more than 100 years, Paramount Studios has been known for cinematic excellence, but Paramount is also an idea, a promise to be the best. It is the idea that inspired us to bring together the best in entertainment across CBS, BET, MTV, Nickel odeon, Showtime and more. And it is the idea that inspired our businesses and our brands to define and redefine entertainment again and again for generation after generation. Indeed, Paramount has always represented brilliant storytelling for audiences ar ound the globe on the big screen, the small screen, and every device in between. It is what we are, it is who we are and it is who we are destined to be. And that is why today, we are thrilled to announce that ViacomCBS has become Paramount Global or simpl y Paramount. This afternoon, we invite you to take a closer look at how far we have come, where we are going, and most importantly, how we plan to get there. We want you to take note of the extraordinary progress we have made over the past two years in al l the momentum we have gathered and know that there is no higher priority for us and no higher priority for me than unlocking a maximizing value for all of our shareholders. As I said, I have never had more reasons to be excited about the future of this c ompany, Paramount. And now, I am proud to introduce our President and CEO, Bob Bakish. Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. Im as excited as you are to talk about this company we lead, this company we love, Paramount. The iconic peak of Paramount represents our history as pioneers of the Golden Age of Hollywood. Today, as we embrace this powerful name, were also pioneers of an exciting new future. And with the momentum we have, Paramount is already reaching new heights. For more than two decades now, Ive witnessed the power of Paramount and all it represents. Ive seen, for example, the global impact of Paramounts gripping films like the Mission: Impossible franchise, which sold out time and time again in theaters all around the world. Ive seen during my international years how the Paramount channel quickly became among our biggest branded networks in the markets outside United States, and Ive seen more recently the audience expanding impact have spiked b eing rebranded as the Paramount Network in the US, thanks to movies and mega hits like Yellowstone and more. And now, I think we all see more and more every day the incredible momentum of ParamountPlus, our flagship streaming service. Our momentum is buildin g. And as it grows, as we take ParamountPlus and our other streaming businesses to the next level, the size of the opportunity we see ahead is matched only by the scale of our ambition to seize it. We cant talk about our momentum without talking about strea ming. Just look at the facts. On our paid streaming platforms, we just wrapped our best quarter ever for new subscribers. In fact, our company added 9.4 million new streaming subscribers in Q4 alone, 80% of them on ParamountPlus. And on Pluto TV, our free, ad - supported streaming television platform, we delivered out - of - this - world results as well. Pluto gained a record 10 million ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 5 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC monthly active users in Q4, spreading its reach to an audience of nearly 65 million monthly actives. And for full year 2021, it gener ated over $1 billion in revenue, almost 5 times what it delivered just two years ago. When it comes to realizing our streaming goals, were moving fast and gaining even more speed. Already, we are one full year ahead of schedule posting subscriber results we didnt expect to see until next January. And by the end of 2022, were on track to hit our 2024 subscriber goal, two full years ahead of schedule. This momentum has us leading the industry on multiple fronts. In Q4, we had the fastest subscriber growt h in streaming, and Pluto TV continued to lead its category both in MAUs and revenue. Furthermore, ParamountPlus was named the fastest growing brand of 2021 not just in streaming, mind you, but in any industry. And its not just streaming where we see this mo mentum. Were firing on all cylinders with number one hits across theatrical, broadcast, cable and streaming. In Q4 alone, we had the top four entertainment programs on all of television, with CBSs NCIS, THE EQUALIZER and FBI, and Paramount Networks Yell owstone. And we had number one shows across countless categories, including the number one comedy with YOUNG SHELDON, the number one news program in 60 MINUTES, the number one kid show in Nickelodeons PAW Patrol, the number one competition reality show in cable with MTVs THE CHALLENGE, the number one premium show, Showtimes Dexter: New Blood. And this quarter, we became the first studio with two number one films at the Box Office with Scream and Jackass Forever, both of which will debut on ParamountPlus in March. And as we look ahead, powered by our phenomenal Paramount content engine, we see a huge global opportunity in streaming, a much larger potential market that can be captured by television and film alone. Were excited about that opportunity and our ability not just to compete but to thrive, and thereby create significant value for both consumers and shareholders. Why? Because we have a differentiated playbook for streaming success, one that leans into our particular strength that we are broad. And br oad in four key ways: across our content, our streaming business model, our mix of platforms and our global reach. This breadth positions us to access a larger accessible market, penetrate it more quickly, and do it all efficiently and sustainably. So, le ts break that down, starting with our bingeworthy, buzzworthy content thats not just rich and deep, but broad and varied. On ParamountPlus, we take the Plus seriously. Were home to the most diverse content offering in streaming. That enables us to serve th e whole household, every generation. From grandparents who were gripped by The Godfather when it premiered in 1972, to preschoolers who were just as excited about PAW Patrol: The Movie in 2022, and we dont just serve the whole household, we serve the whol e country, coast to coast. We capture a broad range of households by income and geography. And increasingly, thats a model were applying all over the world, creating hits in more than a dozen languages. Over the next year, youll see us building on that foundation, expanding our success across key genre lanes, scripted and unscripted, sports, news, and events, kids and family, and movies of all kinds. And speaking of movies, Im pleased to announce that starting with our 2024 releases, ParamountPlus will be come the streaming home for all new Paramount movies following their theatrical runs. Youll see a similar breadth in our streaming business model, the second source of our advantage. Were proud of our strength in both pay and free streaming, including le ading the US market in free, ad - supported streaming television with Pluto TV. We meet consumers, where theyre at, serving different segments in different ways and reaching a larger total addressable market in the process. And with the benefit of dual reve nue streams in both advertising and subscription, were maximizing the revenue pool. Reaching the largest addressable market goes right to the heart of our third advantage, our broad set of platforms spanning linear television, theatrical and streaming. S ome see our legacy in each of these platforms as a ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 6 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC hindrance in our streaming path. We see it as exactly the opposite. Paramounts reach, recognition and relationships are core reasons why our streaming strategy is working. Our existing platforms allow us to launch and grow shows and fandoms for streaming. They help us promote and make the most of our content investments across platforms. They increase the range of value creating commercial partnerships we can build, and they drive our ability to scale quic kly for the future. And thats important because the future is global. The breadth of our global reach is our fourth source of competitive advantage. Some companies only license outside the United States. We, operate. We have been a truly global operating company for decades with teams on the ground in more than 30 markets. And we have the studios, the franchises, the talent, and the production capabilities to move global audiences with locally relevant content driven by more than a dozen production hubs a round the world. Were poised to replicate the success to an even bigger, bolder effect in streaming. Now, we know being broad isnt an end in itself. What matters is that being broad is a means of capturing significant financial benefits. Its a means of maximizing our streaming revenue and accelerating its growth. Its a means of leveraging investment more effectively and running operations more efficiently. Its a means of moving further faster than ever before and turning streaming into a sustainable b usiness for the future. And know this, we are committed to that future, to creating that value. We know the opportunity at hand is massive and weve got the passion, the ambition, and the discipline to deliver. As of today, were raising our guidance, sig naling our conviction that consistent execution of our strategy will deliver performance to match. In fact, we anticipate reaching 100 million subscribers by 2024 compared to the 65 million to 75 million we shared last year. Naveen will expand on this and much more in his presentation. And to set the stage, our colleagues are about to show you exactly how in every way were raising the bar for ourselves, setting our ambitions higher than ever before. In closing, let me just say how proud I am of the progre ss our teams across the company have made, and Im equally excited about the new heights that lie ahead for Paramount. When we spoke to you last year, some of you thought we were on an impossible mission. But today, as you can see, its not only possible, its happening. Here to share more is someone who knows a thing or two about making the impossible possible. Please welcome the one and only, Tom Cruise. [Video Presentation] (00:18:45 - 00:21:46) Thomas V. Ryan President & Chief Executive Officer - ViacomCBS Streaming, ViacomCBS, Inc. Im Tom Ryan, President and CEO of Streaming. I live the acrobatics of Tom Cruise, but I do want to talk about strategy for the expansion and evolution of ParamountPlus. Lets start with our expansion, where were leveraging our global footprint to bring ParamountPlus to new markets with enormous potential. In just one year, we launched the service in 25 markets across Latin America, Canada and Australia. And in 2022, were building on that momentum, expanding to som e of the biggest markets in the world. Well launch in the UK, South Korea and the Caribbean by this summer and will continue with a focus on Europe, Italy, Germany, France, Switzerland and Austria in the second half of the year. To scale most effectively , were creating customized go - to - market plans for each region with tailored partnerships, marketing and distribution strategies and even product offerings. Were deploying hard bundles where we work with a local provider to give their customers immediate access to ParamountPlus as well as direct - to - consumer and à ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 7 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC la carte distribution or sometimes a hybrid of all three. Were taking the annual plan we rolled out in the US and expanding it internationally. At the same time, were creating brand new offerings l ike mobile - only plans for markets where value is key and mobile devices dominate streaming consumption. To do all this, were leaning on our long - time global presence and a vast network of relationships with partners all over the world. Last year, we doub led down on strategic partnerships, closing deals with T - Mobile in the United States and Sky in Europe to name just two examples. Today, were proud to announce a new partnership, this one in France with Canal+, one of the largest providers in the market. Through this hard bundle partnership, Canal+ subscribers will get access to ParamountPlus immediately at launch, allowing us to gain a big foothold and a strong launch pad. These kinds of partnerships and hyper - tailored strategies will help us continue to sca le quickly and economically, reinforcing our competitive position. Across our streaming services and SkyShowtime, our innovative joint venture with Comcast that serves territories encompassing 90 million homes, primarily in Eastern Europe, will be in more than 60 markets by the end of the year with more than 60 partners. Beginning in 2023, well turn our sights to Asia, Africa and the Middle East, building on our momentum to bring ParamountPlus to every region of the world. Our global expansion underscores a n important lesson in streaming. The stories we create are only as powerful as the audience they reach. So, in addition to expanding the service to more people, were also enhancing the service itself. Were constantly asking ourselves how do we make this experience better, smoother, more personalized? Not just how do we serve users, how do we delight them? Just a year in, weve made tremendous strides. We continue to serve a broad diversity of taste through programming thats tailored to the individual and personalized with a distinct editorial voice. Increasingly, viewers are spending more time streaming outside of our top titles and watching a greater variety of series and movies each month. And were continuing to innovate. Weve revamped our brand hu bs and introduced collection pages and weve used innovations from across our platforms to create an even richer experience on ParamountPlus. With Pluto TV for example, we pioneered lean - back linear channels that allow users to simply fall into a show. Its easy entertainment that demands nothing of the viewer because our programming team does the work and it drives effortless discovery and engagement bringing the best of our deep catalog to the fore. Now, weve launched 20 linear franchise and genre channel s in the US on ParamountPlus. So, if you love animation or TV classics, you can jump straight in and discover something new. Just a few weeks in, the adoption of linear channels has grown quickly and the people who use this feature are spending 40% more time on the service than they were before. Simply put, viewers are more easily finding content to love. Our goal with these product enhancements is to give people every reason to explore and enjoy the full breadth of our content on ParamountPlus to make the exper ience so engaging, it becomes part of your daily routine. So, lets talk about how were helping subscribers access even more of our amazing streaming services right there in the ParamountPlus app. Our existing bundle of ParamountPlus and Showtime has performed very well out of the gate. Thats because users can access two premium content offerings with streamlined sign - up, but viewed in distinct apps. Starting this summer, were making Showtime even easier to access in one app experience. The Showtime service will still be available separately if thats your preference. But within ParamountPlus, it will be seamless to sign ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 8 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC up for Showtime and easier than ever to discover great shows. Youll be able to simply upgrade your ParamountPlus subscription to a bundle that in cludes the Showtime service and then view all that content in a single - user experience. And then, when youre done watching Mayor of Kingstown, youll be able to move immediately to the next season of Billions without ever leaving the ParamountPlus app. Less than a year after launch, were expanding into new markets and making our product easier to explore and more seamless to operate and its all for one reason, to build a home worthy of our content. To tell you more about our global content strategy, pleas e welcome our Chief Programming Officer, Tanya Giles. Tanya Giles Chief Programming Officer - Streaming, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thanks, Tom. Its a good thing youre building a worthy home because our content is unrivalled. On ParamountPlus, weve got something for everyone. Take a look. [Video Presentation] (00:28:21 - 00:29:29) Thats a mountain of entertainment. In fact, as Bob mentioned, we have the broadest diversity of content of any streaming service out there. Weve got movies, kids and family programming, news, sports and events, unscripted TV, adult animation, and scripted shows of all types. Our Q4 growth didnt come from one or two of these lanes. Every single lane helped deliver those subscribers. Just look at the top 10 acquisition drivers from last y ear: movies, sports, drama, comedy, kids. These are the titles that draw people to the service. And when we look at what keeps people engaged, the range gets even broader. Reality shows with deep libraries and original series and franchises that give fans more of what they love. As Bob said, our content reaches audiences of all ages, coastal and central, streaming obsessed and streaming curious across the US and around the world. We are super serving the whole household, from preschoolers to rabid sports f ans to news junkies. When more people in a given household watch more shows, those subscriptions only get more valuable. The more profiles an account has and the more titles watched, the higher the retention and the lower the churn. And much of our growth is coming from those hard - to - reach younger audiences where theres enormous potential. We serve the whole country too, with the broadest range of households by income and a geographic spread that covers not just the East and West Coasts, but the center of the country where ParamountPlus over indexes compared to other streaming services. Now, the breadth of our content is just one piece of the puzzle. Through the breadth of our platforms, we also meet users wherever theyre spending their time, whether thats a big theatrical release, linear TV, ad - supporting streaming or social media and use those opportunities to cross promote and introduce our content to new audiences. 1883, for example, is a runaway hit and not just because its totally gripping entertainm ent, we put the full power of our company behind it. We started with Yellowstone, one of the most popular series of all time. To capitalize on its built - in fan base, we leveraged our platforms, linear and streaming, free and pay sampling 1883 on Pluto TV a nd Paramount Network right after Yellowstone. The same day, we released it on ParamountPlus. And that wasnt just any day, but Sunday, when NFL fans were deeply engaged on the service. Thanks to all this and a powerful strategic marketing campaign that leane d heavily on our in - house assets and capabilities, 1883 has been gaining enormous momentum week after week. Its now ParamountPluss biggest hit ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 9 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC ever. And I am so excited for the next chapter of this Dutton family drama coming later this year. And this is jus t the beginning. There is so much more as youll hear later about in the show from our creator himself, Taylor Sheridan. 1883 is only one example of a programming strategy that leverages the quality and breadth of our content and platforms. And its worki ng. The number of titles streamed per user has seen huge growth quarter - after - quarter and year - over - year. And users who stream our original content are exploring even more than their peers. Now, even though were proud of where we are, we are not standing still. And youll now hear from our content leaders, as we look to the future of our programming strategy, we are doubling down on our differentiators. First, we are taking our broad content offering and deepening it with more content across key lanes, bu ilding especially on our treasure trove of IP to create lasting hit franchises. Second, we are continuing to bring viewers from show to show, linear to streaming and back again across our broad set of platforms. And finally, we are leveraging our global reach, which has long been a defining feature of our company to serve international markets, feed our entire global content line and scale ParamountPlus in the process. Before we dive into each content lane, I want to show you just whats possible with stunn ing creative talent and the right strategy behind it. Its an iconic franchise with vibrant characters and gripping storylines coming exclusively to ParamountPlus in just a few weeks, Halo. In fact, we are so excited about season one. I am thrilled to announc e we are greenlighting season two. To tell you more, please welcome the Master Chief himself, Pablo Schreiber. Unverified Participant Thanks, Tanya. My name is Pablo Schreiber and I play the iconic super - soldier Master Chief John - 117. It has been lite rally a dream come true to put on Chiefs helmet and Mjolnir armor and take the fight to the covenant. Bringing this series to life has been a labor of love for so many of us for so long, and Im so excited to show you the results in just a few weeks. Whet her youre a sci - fi geek or a die - hard fan of the Halo franchise or if you just love great television, boy, we have something for you. Well, actually, we do have something for you. Please enjoy a sneak peak of the Halo universe like youve never seen it be fore. Lets finish this fight. [Video Presentation] (00:35:36 - 00:36:36) Brian Robbins President and Chief Executive Officer - Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon & Chief Content Officer - Movies and Kids & Family, ParamountPlus, ViacomCBS, Inc. Good afternoon, everyone, Im Brian Robbins, Chief Content Officer, Movies and Kids & Family for ParamountPlus. Paramount Pictures films and Nickelodeons kids and family content are crucial to our streaming strategy. Last year, Paramount Pictures achieved new milestones f or ParamountPlus, including A Quiet Place Part II, which in addition to being a Box Office success, was the number one film acquisition driver on the platform and a day - and - date release of PAW Patrol: The Movie, the most streamed movie title on ParamountPlus eve r. And what we havent started this year is one of Paramount Pictures best theatrical slates ever. Lets have a look. [Video Presentation] (00:37:36 - 00:40:51) ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 10 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC The star power you just saw, Tom Cruise, Sandra Bullock, Brad Pitt, Margot Robbie, Idris Elba, and Jim Carrey, they are guarantee to have audiences lining up to see these films in theaters. And then these films will make their way to ParamountPlus as the home for the biggest must - see motion pictures. But in streaming, a film must plug in to a greater strategy. Its not enough on its own. Consumers expect quality and quantity. They expect world building and innovation in storytelling. Paramount Pictures, which is armed with so many beloved franchises recognized around the world will deliver on all this and the home for all of our fantastic films will be ParamountPlus. Take the Transformers franchise from us and our partners at Hasbro, it has grossed $5 billion globally from films alone and a multiple of that at retail and we are excited that the next chapt er begins with the release of the 7 Transformers: Rise of the Beasts in 2023 where were tapping into two incredible talents, director Steven Caple Jr. and star, Anthony Ramos, this film will be the first of three installments. But before all that, coming this fall, we will be releasing a new animated series for kids and families from Nickelodeon that offers a fresh take on the iconic brand. And in 2024, well extend the franchise further with a CG animated Transformers theatrical film. With built in aware ness and existing fandoms, we are replicating this success with Sonic the Hedgehog, a beloved global hero for over 30 years now, which recently became a part of the iconic film franchises in the Paramount family. And on April 8, the highly anticipated sequ el to Sonic will premiere in theaters. And we are excited to announce today that Paramount and Sega are developing the first ever original Sonic series for ParamountPlus next year. This live action series will feature the character Knuckles, voiced by Idris E lba. Paramount and Sega are also developing a third Sonic theatrical film, and all of this content will make ParamountPlus the home for this incredibly popular franchise. And in our cannon of home - grown franchises is the Quiet Place, with two major hit movies earning $650 million in global Box Office. The suspense of A Quiet Place goes way beyond just the average family and we are excited to show you just how deep the horror gets. And heres my friend John Krasinski to tell you more about that. [Video Presen tation] (00:43:45 - 00:45:12) Thank you, John. Talent like John with massive loyal fan bases will follow them for theaters to ParamountPlus. And over the next 24 months, thats what youre going to see. From blockbusters like Top Gun, Lost City, Dungeons & Dra gons and Mission: Impossible to Babylon from Academy Award winning director, Damien Chazelle, starring Brad Pitt and Margot Robbie to the recently announced collaboration from creative visionaries Matt Stone and Trey Parker, the masterminds behind South Pa rk, and music superstar Kendrick Lamar, and all of these will make their way to ParamountPlus. And as Bob said, were thrilled that starting with our 2024 releases, ParamountPlus will become the home for all Paramount theatrical movies. Now, just as Paramount P ictures has established itself as the premiere studio brand for generations of audiences, Nickelodeon is kids and family, with the most brand loyal audience on the planet. And because with streaming, once families subscribe, they stay subscribed. Viewers w ho come in for kids and family content reduce churn by double digits, creating even stronger long - term value. And with 25 million US homes with kids 2 to 11 and millions of more globally and ParamountPlus being one of the top providers of kids content, well, from where we sit, the upside is enormous. Start with the SpongeBob universe. Its the number one most streamed property on the platform, with 13 seasons and 2 brand new spin off shows, Kamp Koral and Patrick Star plus, we are announcing today three new c haracter - driven movies exclusively for ParamountPlus and a big theatrical temple in the works. We will also usher in a new era of Turtlemania for 2023 with the theatrical release of a new Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie from ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 11 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Seth Rogen, whos taking the p roperty back to its original DNA of comedy and action. And we will fast follow this series with a villain - driven turtles film exclusively from ParamountPlus. And as we build up our homegrown franchises, were also bringing new ones into the fold. This fall, I am excited for Monster High, where we will reintroduce these classic monsters to a whole new generation of kids with a live action musical movie and a new animated series, and also a hot toy line from our partners at Mattel. And later this month, we have the ParamountPlus debut of Big Nate, the first adaptation of the bestselling book series known and read by almost any fourth grader you will find. Check it out. [Video Presentation] (00:48:14 - 00:48:53) And now, when it comes to preschool, it doesnt get an y bigger than PAW Patrol. So, in the wake of PAW Patrol: The Movie success on ParamountPlus, weve green lit the sequel The Mighty Movie for theaters in 2023, and were pairing it with the first ever spin - off TV series of PAW for Nickelodeon and ParamountPlus. A nd the success in one preschool franchise has crescendo effects across the whole portfolio, which will also include these ParamountPlus titles, a movie from Blues Clues, Blues Big Adventure, bowing this year; and in 2023, a full - length Baby Shark movie base d on the most viewed YouTube video of all time and our high - rated Nick series. And were announcing today the return of Dora the Explorer with a new animated series for preschoolers and a live action series in the same spirit as the recent theatrical for o lder kids. So, with all this great content lined up, were in the best position. Unverified Participant Brian. Hey, Brian. Brian Robbins President and Chief Executive Officer - Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon & Chief Content Officer - Movies and Kids & Family, ParamountPlus, ViacomCBS, Inc. Hey, Miranda. This is a total surprise and completely unrehearsed. Unverified Participant Oh, totally unrehearsed. I am actually close by, though, shooting Season 2 of iCarly, so I just thought Id pop over to mak e sure we get a good plug in here for our show and to remind everyone how big it was last summer. Brian Robbins President and Chief Executive Officer - Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon & Chief Content Officer - Movies and Kids & Family, ParamountPlus, ViacomC BS, Inc. Oh, 100%. I mean, iCarly was the top comedy acquisition driver on ParamountPlus last year; it drove billions of impressions on social media. Thanks to you. And like you said, you are taping the new season right now thats going to premiere later this year. Unverified Participant Yeah. Its been such a great homecoming for all of us, and were just so grateful to all the fans of the show, and Ive even sort of enjoyed being a meme again. Anyway, thanks for the plug. Ive got to get back to set. Were ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 12 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC doing this whole unresolved issues thing between Carly and Freddie. So, thanks for indulging me, and thanks again to everyone. Thanks, Brian. Brian Robbins President and Chief Executive Officer - Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon & Chief Content Of ficer - Movies and Kids & Family, ParamountPlus, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thanks for coming by. That was awesome. Unverified Participant Bye. Brian Robbins President and Chief Executive Officer - Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon & Chief Content Officer - Movies and Kids & Family, ParamountPlus, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thank you, Miranda. Not only was iCarly a huge hit in its own right, but it also opened the door for ParamountPlus to program more young adult content, another huge opportunity for us, the incredibly influential YA audience of 100 million, 13 to 34 year olds drives 3 trillion in spending power. They are huge consumers of content, with an average of five SVOD subscriptions each, and they dominate social, and their endorsement is the most effective marketing campaign you can ever imagine. So, for them, were launching a full slate of YA targeted films and series powered in part by Awesomeness, the studio behind the recent YA hits To All the Boys, Pen15 and The Perfect Date. And our films include the recently released The In Between, starring YA icon Joey King from The Kissing Booth and upcoming films like Honor Society, a high school comedy thats a cross between election and mean girls, starring Angourie Rice from Mare of Easttown, and Gaten Matarazzo from Stranger Th ings. And also Hush, Hush based on the New York Times bestselling book series, Fantasy Football from LeBron James Springhill Company starring Marsai Martin, and the return of MTVs Teen Wolf with a new movie featuring the original cast that will set up a new werewolf series called Wolf Pack based on the acclaimed books by Edo van Belkom. So all of this, this is just what I can squeeze in my allotted time. There are so much more, so much more content, creativity and innovations coming and pulling it all to gether, Paramounts legendary list of beloved IP and the high - profile star power throughout our ecosystem and the generation defining hits birthed by Nickelodeon, all make ParamountPlus the home to the biggest, most iconic franchises serving everyone from pre schoolers to boomers and generations X, Y and Z. So, if youre a fan of any of these, then you must have ParamountPlus If youre a fan of any of these, then you must have ParamountPlus, and whats more, these titles will live across films and series, in consume r products, fueling global fandoms and driving subscriptions, engagement and retention. And when it comes to global fandoms there is nothing like Star Trek fandom, and here to talk about whats next in that universe is JJ Abrams. [Video Presentation] (00: 53:35 - 00:56:56) George Cheeks President & Chief Executive Officer - CBS & Chief Content Officer - News and Sports, ParamountPlus, ViacomCBS, Inc. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 13 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Im George Cheeks, Chief Content Officer for News and Sports on ParamountPlus. And this is the legendary San Siro, the home of Inter Milan and AC Milan, and the setting for many thrilling UEFA Champions League and Serie A matches. You can watch them all on ParamountPlus. We have many of the biggest franchises in live sports. Its a true differentiator for the service. Now to talk about that, lets hear from two voices of the most popular sport on ParamountPlus. From our Inside the NFL studio in New York, an all - time NFL great, Julian Edelman, and from our Champions League studio, the incredible host of the UEFA Champions L eague on CBS Sports, Kate Abdo. And who better to talk about the success of football on ParamountPlus than one of the faces of our critically acclaimed coverage. Take it away. [Video Presentation] (00:57:49 - 01:00:07) Like Kate and Julian said, whether were talking about football or football, ParamountPlus is winning because we have something nobody else does, a sports ecosystem where ParamountPlus and CBS Sports work together to drive subscriptions and engagement. We have televisions most valuable property, the NFL, and its performing better than ever for us. Take our Thanksgiving Day game. More than 40 million fans tuned in, making it the most watched regular season game in 31 years and the most streamed regular season game ever on ParamountPlus. This record - brea king momentum continued into the playoffs, with our most streamed non - Super Bowl weekend ever. Now, in the span of just one football season, the NFL on ParamountPlus has increased by 88% in active subscribers and by 67% in minutes streamed, and theres so mu ch more to come, thanks to our historic multi - platform deal that extends our relationship with the NFL through 2033. Were also Americas home to the worlds most popular sport, and look at the sheer tonnage of our exclusive rights in soccer. The 2021 - 22 U EFA Champions League season alone continues to deliver record - breaking audiences for ParamountPlus and were expanding our coverage internationally. ParamountPlus recently landed English Premier League rights for Mexico and Central America. In Chile, ParamountPlus will stream the Chilean national football team qualifying matches for the 2026 FIFA World Cup. And ParamountPlus and Network Ten will present the top Australian leagues and the Australian national team matches in territory. ParamountPlus also is the home of the full CBS News portfolio. This includes our recently rebranded 24/7 streaming news service that will feature new original programs from CBSs top on air news talent, a slate of upcoming docu - series from leading journalists and filmmakers, as well as on - dem and access to the networks iconic news franchises. Now, as Bob said, one of our key differentiators is our broad collection of businesses, from television to theatrical, working together to drive global streaming. Our company has the worlds biggest broa dcast footprint, with powerhouse networks around the world, including the top - rated broadcaster in Argentina, Telefe; the top network in Chile, Chilevisión; Channel 5 in the UK; and Australias Network Ten. Each network offers up a powerful, owned marketin g platform, with massive reach to fuel the growth of ParamountPlus. On CBS, for example, we promote ParamountPlus in every hour of network programming. Last year, it added up to 4 billion on air impressions and 1,500 spots across CBS. And our networks continue to produce hit after hit, hits that find new audiences on ParamountPlus all over the world. One of Network Tens most successful Australian drama series, Five Bedrooms, moved to ParamountPlus. Five Bedrooms is now one of the biggest shows on the service, helping to drive early subscription growth in Australia, where we vastly exceeded our subscriber estimates. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 14 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC In Latin America, our teams also are turning local broadcast hits into ParamountPlus originals, like the megahit MasterChef on Telefe, spinning off into Hand s Off Chef on ParamountPlus. Two CBS series, Evil and SEAL Team, became ParamountPlus originals last year, and quickly became two of the most watched original series on the service in the US. They both have been renewed for another season, and today were excite d to announce plans for a SEAL Team movie event exclusively for ParamountPlus. Now, we continue to add CBS hits on ParamountPlus, from dramas like FBI, which has vaulted into one of the services top shows, to comedies like Ghosts, which is the number one new c omedy on broadcast and the number one comedy series on ParamountPlus; from primetime entertainment, to news, to NFL on CBS. Bottom line, different audiences watch premium content in different ways. We can draw the biggest broadcast audiences and engage a uniq ue and additive audience on streaming, as we continue to grow ParamountPlus and build more franchises. And CBS will take our globally popular franchises and turn them into local ParamountPlus originals. Today were announcing NCIS: Sydney, a uniquely Australian spin on the hit US show, coming next year to ParamountPlus in Australia. The new series will be filmed in one of the worlds most scenic harbor cities. It will feature local stories and local creative talent, including Shane Brennan, creator of NCIS: LA, who s an Australian himself. It all adds up to the very best in live sports, breaking news, key entertainment franchises, and broadcast networks driving ParamountPlus with audiences all around the world. Now Id like to pass it over to my colleague and friend, Chris McCarthy. Chris McCarthy President & Chief Executive Officer - Media Networks & Chief Content Officer - Unscripted Entertainment and Adult Animation, ParamountPlus, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thanks, George, and hi, everyone. Im Chris McCarthy, the Chief Content Officer for Adult Animation and Reality Programming for ParamountPlus, and Im excited to be here today to talk to you about both genres, as well as the global power of IP. Adult animation and reality content share a lot in common, larger than life character s, outrageous situations, and laugh - out - loud moments that resonate. They show exaggerated truths that we can all relate to and thats why theyre so incredibly popular all over the world. And they both hold a special place for us. Were credited with creat ing reality TV with the launch of The Real World and with South Park and Beavis and Butt - Head, we help to bring adult animation into the mainstream and around the world over 25 years ago. And to this day, we are global leaders in both. And as we accelerate our expansion with ParamountPlus globally, were doubling down. Let me give you an example. Jersey Shore was an instant phenomenon when we launched it in the US. So, we franchised it with local cast all over the world. With Acapulco Shore and Rio Shore, we used them to launch ParamountPlus in Mexico and Brazil and they quickly became the number one series in those markets. And Im excited to announce today that were renewing both of those series and to further accelerate our launches globally, were adding se ven new Shores around the world. You see, this is one of our global competitive advantages, globally known reality IP with local cast executions. It allows us to customize our offering in new markets with incredible efficiency. Now thats what I call a Sho re thing. That takes me to The Challenge. The IP that created reality competition is now about to create a new reality first. Behind me is the location in Argentina, where were shooting the first - ever globally connected competition series. And because it takes place in one location, were creating five series for nearly two - thirds the cost. Take a look at The Challenge: War of the Worlds. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 15 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC [Video Presentation] (01:07:26 - 01:08:39) And thats just the beginning. Take a look at the scope and scale of what w e have going on. It truly puts us in a leadership position. Now lets talk about the power of adult animation. South Park and Beavis and Butt - Head are some of the most beloved and universally recognized IPs in the world. Last year, South Park was the numb er one adult animated series in the US. And around the world, over 50 billion minutes of the show was consumed, which means at any given time, more than 100,000 people are watching South Park. And Im thrilled to say, as we celebrate the 25th anniversary, the series is coming home. It all started last year as we launched two new streaming movies on ParamountPlus, which were top performers in the US and number one in our international markets. Now, well build on that momentum with two new South Park movies ev ery year for the next six years and Im excited to announce here, for the first time ever, that ParamountPlus International will become the exclusive home to the full South Park library of 310 episodes as we launch the series this year. Plus, starting in 2024 , new episodes of the South Park series will have their US and international streaming premieres on ParamountPlus, followed by the full catalog coming home to the US in 2025, making ParamountPlus the global exclusive SVOD home to South Park. Now, were also welcoming home Beavis and Butt - Head this July with a brand new movie set 20 years into the future, which is sure to reignite the franchise for old and new fans alike. And well build on that momentum with a new series set in the present day. Those are just a few of the great animated projects we have coming, as we continue to build out our global IP to power ParamountPluss expansion. Now speaking of the power of IP to attract and capture millions of fans, last year, Yellowstone became a phenomenon, not just in the US, where its number one on linear, but also internationally, where ParamountPlus is its SVOD home. To build on that momentum, we franchised the series in real time, starting with the origin story, 1883. It just launched in December and it became an i nstant global hit. In fact, as you heard earlier from Tanya, its ParamountPluss biggest hit ever. Clearly, were only at the beginning of unleashing the full potential of this IP. And here to tell you more about that is our creative partner, Taylor Sherida n. [Video Presentation] (01:10:54 - 01:14:03) David Nevins Chief Content Officer - Scripted Originals, ParamountPlus & Chairman & Chief Executive Officer - Showtime Networks Inc., ViacomCBS, Inc. Im David Nevins, Chief Content Officer of Scripted Originals fo r ParamountPlus. Behind me is a London soundstage, where we make the kind of global scripted originals that are helping to power ParamountPlus. We make shows that resonate across the country and around the world, and we make them in every market for every market . Its a two - way street, with US - made shows that were rolling out around the world, and internationally produced shows that were bringing to the US and markets everywhere. We are creating groundbreaking new IP, even as we lean into the franchises that f ans love, and we bring the highest level of acting, writing, and cinematography, the best of Hollywood to everything we do. The result is entertainment thats addictive. Its what entices subscribers and keeps them coming back for more, the kind of shows y ou can relax with on a Saturday afternoon ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 16 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC or just before bedtime and the kind of shows that can [ph] fill the call (01:14:57) for a suspenseful Friday night at home. Take The Offer, one of Hollywoods wildest stories how the iconic film The Godfather almo st didnt happen. Its a riveting limited series starring Miles Teller, Juno Temple, Matthew Goode, and Giovanni Ribisi. Heres a peak. [Video Presentation] (01:15:13 - 01:16:20) Next comes Grease: Rise of the Pink Ladies, a splashy musical prequel to a classic film with proven multi - generational appeal, but updated for today with cutting - edge music and choreography. Have a look at this just produced dance sequel. [Video Presentation] (01:16:35 - 01:18:13) And coming later this year, weve got Kiefer Suth erland in an edge - of - your - seat psychological thriller, Rabbit Hole. From the creators of The Good Fight and Evil comes a true story of a woman who realizes her father was the infamous real - life Happy Face serial killer; and titles from the Paramount librar y ripe for updating, like Fatal Attraction, starring Lizzy Caplan and Joshua Jackson. For us, its absolutely essential how well these shows will play internationally, because ParamountPlus is designed for a global audience. And to tell you more about our in ternational production plans, let me throw it over to my London colleague, Maria Kyriacou. Maria Panayiotis Kyriacou President - ViacomCBS Networks International Australia, Israel and UK, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thank you, David. As youve said, ParamountPlus is a t ruly global service in every way. Our production capabilities span more than 20 countries, from Argentina, to Israel, to my home here in London, giving us an incredible advantage. Here in the UK, we are thrilled to launch ParamountPlus this summer, bringing a ll our shows and movies to British audiences, and bringing the remarkable talent that we have here to a global audience. From a dramatization of the New York Times bestselling novel, A Gentleman in Moscow, to a prequel series of the British cult hit, Sexy Beast, were excited about whats in store. As we expand ParamountPlus into global markets, my colleagues around the world are creating new content, like our first Italian original, Miss Fallaci, and a thriller from Germany, The Chemistry of Death, and were expanding our partnerships with international groups, including CJ Entertainment, the South Korean production company behind Parasite, starting with a thought - provoking new drama, Yonder. In fact, we already have more than 50 new international originals p lanned. Heres a quick look. [Video Presentation] (01:19:54 - 01:20:38) As a company, weve also become a leading producer of Spanish language content, with Telefe in Argentina and the recent acquisitions of Chilevisión, TeleColombia, and Estudios TeleMéxico, we premiere over 5,000 hours of content per year, and we use that scale to drive ParamountPlus, leading into hit shows like Los Enviados and Cecilia, which I can confirm have been picked up for second seasons. And here to tell us about the new ro mantic comedy At Midnight is the incredibly talented Monica Barbaro. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 17 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Unverified Participant Thanks, Maria. After playing a fighter pilot by the name of Phoenix in Paramounts highly anticipated Top Gun Maverick with the legendary Tom Cruise, I am thril led to stay with the family. At this very moment, Im in Mexico shooting a beautiful new film with Diego Boneta called At Midnight, which tells the story of Sophie and Alejandro, two ambitious people who meet at the right place but the wrong time. I play a career - driven movie star with a seemingly glamorous life, and my world collides with Alejandro, who, until now, has lived his life according to a thought - out predictable plan. Its been an incredible shoot so far, and we cant wait to share with you the m agic weve gotten to experience on set every day. Maria Panayiotis Kyriacou President - ViacomCBS Networks International Australia, Israel and UK, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thanks, Monica. Simply put, we tell great stories that transcend all countries and cultures. Back over to you, David. David Nevins Chief Content Officer - Scripted Originals, ParamountPlus & Chairman & Chief Executive Officer - Showtime Networks Inc., ViacomCBS, Inc. Thank you, Maria. As Maria said, the beating heart of what we do is tell great, captivating stories; stories that move us, provoke us, and make us think; stories that you cant stop talking about, and with hits like Your Honor and Yellowjackets, not to mention the huge worldwide success of the Dexter revival, SHOWTIME has been a great producer of fear of missing out series that become worldwide sensations, series that dominate the cultural conversation, and serve as a cornerstone for our ParamountPlus service in markets around the world. And as Tom said earlier, this includes US subscribers who will soon be able to easily access SHOWTIME within ParamountPlus. Looking ahead, we couldnt be more excited about these global hits in the making: The First Lady, an intimate view inside the lives of Michelle Obama, Betty Ford, and Eleanor Ro osevelt, starring Viola Davis, Michelle Pfeiffer, and Gillian Anderson. Take a look. [Video Presentation] (01:22:54 - 01:23:53) From the creators of Billions comes another show from their universe exploring the contours of capitalism, its Super Pumped: Th e Battle for Uber. If Billions is about the masters of that universe, Super Pumped is about the entrepreneurs. Heres a preview. [Video Presentation] (01:24:08 - 01:25:07) And Im excited to announce that were already at work on Season 2 of Super Pumped, which is going to be about the rise of Facebook. And today, we are also ordering Season 7 of Billions. On the horizon, we have the iconic American Gigolo starring Jon Bernthal; Let the Right One In, an adaptation of the Scandinavian vampire saga starring Demián Bichir; and Ripley, a sumptuous take on the classic Patricia Highsmith mystery of an American tourist whose visit to Italy is interrupted by accusations of murder; premium shows, huge stars, addictive stories with global appeal. This is what it look s like when we supercharge our content engines to create shows the world cant get enough of, all on ParamountPlus, and we are just getting started. Now, let me turn things back over to Bob. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 18 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. As you can see, across every genre lane, Paramount is reaching new heights with our powerful content engine. And that engine in turn is creating a compelling value creation opportunity for the company. Here, to share more details on that, please welcome our Chief Financial Officer, Naveen Chopra. Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thanks, Bob, and hello, everyone. This afternoon, my colleagues have explained how we plan to take our flagship streaming service to new heights. Now, Id like to explain how that strategy is driving our financial results today and into the future. Ill start by sharing a few highlights from our Q4 results and recapping the remarkable year we had in streaming. The n, Ill talk about the future, starting with changes in our disclosures, which are important to understanding our future financial goals. Ill explain how our differentiated streaming playbook translates to a financially attractive business with healthy lo ng - term margins. And then, well put some specifics around all of that, with updates on our long - term goals and expectations for 2022. So, lets start with our Q4 results, which are covered in greater detail in the press release we issued earlier today. W e added 9.4 million streaming subscribers in Q4, reaching a total of 56.1 million global subscribers across our services. ParamountPlus continued to drive the vast majority of new subscribers in the quarter. But SHOWTIME OTT also had a record quarter of addit ions. In ad - supported streaming, Pluto TV continued to thrive, delivering its biggest quarter of MAU growth by adding 10 million MAUs to reach 64.4 million MAUs globally. In combination, these services powered another quarter of exceptionally strong revenue growth. Global streaming revenue was up almost 50% year - over - year to $1.3 billion, benefiting from strong subscription revenue growth, which accelerated yet again to an impressive 84%. At the same time, we saw a continued strength in our tradition al businesses, with growth in both advertising and affiliate revenue. Our balance sheet also strengthened in Q4, where we sold non - core real estate assets and ended the year with $6.3 billion of cash on hand. Our net debt balance now reflects a $7 billion reduction since the merger of Viacom and CBS and provides ample firepower to seize the tremendous streaming opportunity before us. And speaking of streaming, as youve heard throughout todays event, 2021 was indeed remarkable. Less than a year since the launch of ParamountPlus, our content, marketing and distribution engines drove explosive growth, adding more than 26 million global streaming subscribers across our platforms in 2021. In turn, streaming subscription revenue grew nearly 80%. We know that kind of growth relies on great content to attract and retain a broad base of subscribers and were seeing the formula working. In fact, if we look at our domestic ParamountPlus business, as content selection expanded, the average monthly active rate moved higher in each of the past three quarters since launch. And as audiences spend more time with the service, churn also improved each quarter during the year. And as engagement and retention increase, so does the lifetime value of ParamountPlus subscribers. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 19 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC And to un derscore what Bob and Tom shared, 2021 was also an out - of - this - world year for Pluto TV. In addition to crossing the $1 billion revenue threshold, Pluto TV experienced tremendous growth in users and watch time. Total global viewing hours increased over 50% to 4.8 billion, while viewing hours per domestic MAU grew a healthy 12%. In a moment, Im going to explain how our performance in 2021 guides our expectations for future streaming growth. But before doing so, let me explain changes were making to our fin ancial disclosures, which will improve the visibility of this direct - to - consumer growth, while highlighting the profitability of our traditional business. Today, we published re - casted trending schedules on our website, presenting historical results throu gh the lens of our three new segments, as shown here: first, a highly profitable and resilient TV Media business, which includes our global broadcast and cable network businesses and their associated studios that were reported separately in our legacy TV E ntertainment and Cable Networks segments. It also includes Paramount TV Studios, which was previously part of the Filmed Entertainment segment; second, Filmed Entertainment, which is comprised of the Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon Studios; and finally, a high - growth Direct - to - Consumer business, which includes the global operations of our D2C streaming services consisting of ParamountPlus, Pluto TV, SHOWTIME OTT, BET Plus, and Noggin, all in one segment. Taking a closer look at our segments under the new r eporting structure, youll notice the profitability of our TV Media segment, which generated nearly $23 billion in revenue and close to $6 billion in adjusted OIBDA last year. TV Media OIBDA was up 1% year - over - year and delivered a 26% OIBDA margin. In our D2C segment, revenue grew an impressive 83%. And as you know, we continue to invest behind this growth to capture a highly strategic market opportunity. And as a result of this investment, D2C operated at a loss of approximately $1 billion in 2021. In ad dition to changes in our segment reporting, were also evolving our revenue disclosures. Our new reporting segments feature four revenue types: advertising, affiliate and subscription, theatrical, and licensing and other. Our streaming revenues are now cap tured as advertising or affiliate and subscription revenue in either the D2C segment or the TV Media segment, if not directly related to our D2C services. And to offer a closer look at Direct - To - Consumer, we will also be publishing revenue and subscribers or monthly active users for ParamountPlus and Pluto TV, respectively. As shown on this chart, by year - end 2021, ParamountPlus had 32.8 million global streaming subscribers. As Bob mentioned, ParamountPlus has been the key driver of subscriber growth, representing over 80% of the 26.2 million global streaming additions we gained last year. ParamountPlus generated $1.3 billion in revenue in 2021, up 115% year - over - year. Domestic paid ARPU approached $9 in Q4, reflecting a mix of essential, premium, and promotional subsc ribers. In 2022, we expect both domestic ARPU and international ARPU to move higher. Domestic ARPU will benefit from improved ad monetization and the conversion of trial and promotional subs to full - paying subs. And international ARPU will improve, too, a s we launch in large international markets with significantly higher average ARPUs than our current international sub base. And on Pluto TV, you now know, we added over 21 million global MAUs in 2021, delivering almost 90% top - line growth. Thats $1.1 bil lion in revenue. In the US, Plutos efficient business model and impressive ARPU growth demonstrate increasingly strong margin potential. In fact, Pluto TVs global ARPU increased 17% year - over - year to $1.64, with domestic ARPU significantly higher at $2.5 4, up 44% year - over - year. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 20 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Were also simplifying the way we record Direct - To - Consumer content expense to more clearly present the actual cost to the company of our streaming investments. We are no longer recording intercompany licensing between segments. Instead, were allocating content costs to each segment based on the relative value of the distribution windows exploited by each reporting segment. What does this change mean for D2C investment? Well, under our new reporting structure, D2C content expense would have been about $1 billion in 2020 and $2.2 billion in 2021. We think this combination of changes makes it easier to understand and value the future Paramount. Its a future we are very excited about, because it leverages the assets from our traditi onal media enterprise to build a large - scale global Direct - To - Consumer business with attractive long - term margins. As Bob laid out, streaming unlocks a tremendous incremental market opportunity for Paramount compared to Pay TV. In fact, relative to our ex isting Pay TV footprint, which reaches 300 million households, our streaming strategy reaches more than double that amount, to well over 600 million broadband homes, excluding China and India. And this number will continue to grow, especially when adding m obile broadband users, a previously inaccessible segment, well soon be targeting with a mobile - only plan for ParamountPlus in certain geographies. Our broad approach to streaming positions us to capture an even greater portion of this growing addressable ma rket with better long - term economics. Let me use three examples from our playbook to explain how our approach yields financial benefits and creates long - term value. First, within ParamountPlus and across our ecosystem, we benefit from a combination of subscri ption and advertising revenue. This gives us multiple ways to grow beyond just subs and price. Our dual revenue stream model allows us to grow ARPU through enhanced engagement and monetization, and we can reach an even larger audience by appealing to the h undreds of millions of consumers, who prefer to pay a low or no subscription fee for their content. Advertising has powered the media business model for decades. The power of broadcast television has been essential to cable television. Today, as we look ahead to the future, it adds incredible value to our streaming playbook as part of a hybrid subscription ad - supported model like ParamountPlus and as a pure - ad supported service with Pluto TV. Second, when it comes to distribution, were also running with a differentiated playbook, combining the topnotch consumer experience and massive addressable market of streaming, with the attractive economics of the traditional cable model, at a time where our partners are focused on using streaming services to further l everage their broadband presence and expand customer offerings. Take our hard bundle deal with Sky, or the deal we announced today with Canal+, where ParamountPlus is instantly distributed to millions of Sky Cinema or Canal+ customers. While ARPU is lower th an in our Direct - To - Consumer channel, its higher than linear TV, subscribers scale very quickly, we incur no customer acquisition, billing, or support costs, and we eliminate the risk of churn when series reach end of season. This play is enabled by our l ongstanding relationships with global MVPDs and the differentiated value proposition of ParamountPlus. And of course, these hard bundle relationships let us maximize reach by complementing our higher ARPU direct channels and customers we acquire through strea ming platforms like Amazon, Roku, and Apple. Third, we have a unique opportunity to leverage our content investments across our broad platforms. Its the perfect illustration of how our so called legacy businesses enhance streaming economics. And its not just a hunch. We measure return on investment on a show - by - show basis. Unlike a pure - play streamer, our ROI equation benefits from broad platforms like box office revenue, Pluto TV, third - party licensing, download to own, and consumer products among other s. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 21 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Coupled with the lifetime value of each ParamountPlus customer directly attributed to the title, this diversified model consistently demonstrates compelling ROI across many popular ParamountPlus releases, which brings us back to our differentiated streaming playbook. These monetization opportunities improve the return on streaming content and are not available to a pure - play streamer. In our model, these traditional businesses are powerful sources of economic and promotional value. While high - impact Paramount + exclusives, like Mayor of Kingstown and 1883, are important to our growth, they are only part of our success equation. ParamountPlus is also powered by a deep portfolio of both shared and library content. With strong momentum in our Direct - To - Consumer busi ness and a differentiated streaming playbook, were confident that the opportunity ahead is, as Bob said, matched only by the scale of our ambition to seize it. Just one year ago, we set a goal to reach 65 million to 75 million global streaming subscribers by year - end 2024. We now expect to surpass that goal by the end of 2022, two years ahead of schedule. Today, we are raising that goal to over 100 million global D2C subscribers by year - end 2024. This excludes subscribers we expect to serve with SkyShowtim e, which will be reported separately by the JV. At Pluto TV, engagement and ARPU have accelerated meaningfully in the past year, increasing our ability to monetize the 100 million to 120 million global MAUs we expect to reach by 2024. In this combination, higher subscribers and ARPU, as well as accelerated monetization improvements at Pluto TV, means our goal for 2024 D2C revenue has increased substantially. Last year, our goal for global streaming revenue was to exceed $7 billion in 2024. As you can see o n the right side of this chart, that included $6 billion of revenue now captured in our D2C segment, with the remainder being digital video advertising now captured in our TV Media segment. As a result of our momentum and incremental investments, we are r aising our 2024 Direct - To - Consumer revenue goal to over $9 billion. Thats $3 billion higher than the $6 billion which was embedded in our 2024 revenue goal just one year ago. The incremental D2C revenue consists of both more aggressive subscriber assumpti ons and ARPU improvement, driven by the combination of subscription price increases and growth in advertising monetization. Now of course, our growth depends on delivering killer content. Last year, we told you we expected streaming content expense to exc eed $5 billion in 2024. This included $4 billion of expense associated with our Direct - To - Consumer services. We now expect D2C content expense to grow from $2.2 billion last year to over $6 billion in 2024. Given these investments, we forecast D2C OIBDA lo sses will be greatest in 2023 but will improve in 2024, when our global D2C businesses will start to see the benefits of our full content slate, including Paramount Pay One movies. By then, well be launched in significantly more markets, advertising and s ubscription monetization will be higher, and the layering of content amortization expense will begin to stabilize. And longer term, our model suggests that the D2C segment will approach margins similar to our current TV Media business. I also want to prov ide some color on near - term expectations for each of our segments in 2022. At TV Media, we expect adjusted OIBDA to be similar to 2021, when adjusting for the benefit of Super Bowl LV in Q1 of last year. Similarly, we expect adjusted OIBDA at Filmed Entert ainment to remain stable year - over - year, absent changes to our current film slate. And in D2C, we anticipate another year of very healthy subscriber growth led by ParamountPlus and continued expansion at Pluto TV, all of which will translate to D2C revenue gr owth in excess of 60% for the full year. In fact, we expect D2C revenue growth in Q1 to accelerate beyond 2021s full - year D2C revenue growth rate. As we grow, Direct - To - Consumer will see additional investments in content and international launches. As su ch, we anticipate an increase in OIBDA losses of approximately $500 million for the D2C segment in 2022. On a total company basis, consolidated OIBDA will show sequential increases in each quarter of 2022, including Q1. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 22 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Regarding the year - over - year trends , the first half of 2021 incorporated several non - comparable items, which benefited OIBDA in the period, including the Super Bowl, the impact of COVID on linear production and film releases, and the launch of ParamountPlus, which did not occur until March 4. Therefore, the first half of this year will show a material year - over - year decline in OIBDA, which will then flip to a significant year - over - year growth in the back half of the year, resulting in the full - year trends I just described. Weve covered a lot of ground today, and I know everyone is looking forward to the Q&A session. So on behalf of my colleagues, let me recap four key takeaways. First, in just one year, ParamountPlus has outperformed all expectations. We have serious momentum and the credibility to establish ourselves as a scaled streaming player. Second, we are enhancing transparency. We want you to see and understand the evolution of both our D2C and traditional businesses. Third, we are taking our ambitions to new heights. Were investing in gr owth, with significantly higher goals for streaming subscribers and streaming revenue. Fourth, and most importantly, we are executing a differentiated streaming playbook that leverages our traditional businesses to yield faster growth and attractive long - t erm D2C margins. With that, let me introduce Anthony DiClemente, Executive Vice President, Investor Relations, to lead us through Q&A. Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thanks, Naveen, and thanks to all of you for joining us. Here for todays discussion, we have Bob Bakish, our President and CEO; Naveen Chopra, our CFO; and Tom Ryan, President and CEO of Streaming. I also want to note that slides from todays presentation will be available on our website aft er we conclude. Were going to spend the next 30 minutes answering your questions. Our analysts are joining us by Zoom. In order to help us to get to as many of your questions as possible, Id like to ask that you please limit yourself to one question. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 23 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A With that, lets open the line. Our first question will be coming from Mike Morris at Guggenheim. Mike, go ahead with your question. Michael Morris Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC Q Thank you, Anthony, and thank you for all of the information you guys just shared. I guess with my one question, Id like to ask you about the path to the subscriber guidance that you have out there, the 100 million by 2024. Can you share any more details with us about what that path looks like over the next couple of years, whether there are different milestones that would accelerate or cause choppiness in that path? And can you give us any more details about how you see the geographic mix of that subscriber base evolving? Thanks. Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Sure. Hi, Mike. Its Naveen. Ill take that question. In terms of how we see our D2C business g row into 100 million, we do think theres going to be some relatively steady growth over the next few years. If I were to break that down a little bit more, Id say a couple things. Number one, in 2022, as I mentioned on the call, we do expect that we wil l exceed our prior guidance for 2024 subs, and in saying that, we mean exceed the high end of that guidance. So that gives you some sense of what we expect to see in 2022, and we expect a healthy rate of growth to continue in 2023 and 2024. In terms of the geographic composition of subs, we obviously have global ambitions, which means that we expect both domestic subs and international subs to be important contributors to achieving that 100 million sub goal. If you think about our D2C subscriber base tod ay, it does skew domestic. But as we progress and as we launch ParamountPlus in more markets, the portion of overall subs that is made up from international will continue to grow. If I look forward to 2024, I would expect that domestic will still be the large r portion of our base. But you will see quarters over the next year, where the skew of new subscriber additions may be either domestic or more international. Q4, as an example, where we saw a tremendous growth, was heavily driven out of the United States, but there will be quarters next year where we launch in new markets or we launch new partners, where more of that growth will skew international. But in the long run, both domestic and international are going to be important, because at the end of the day , were building a global D2C business. Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Mike, the only thing I want to add is that 100 million number does not include subscribers we expect from SkyShowtime. Thats an unconsolidated joint venture and we obviously expect that to be in the many millions of subs. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 24 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah, the Q4 sub growth was skewed domestic to be clear. Thanks, Mike. Well take our next question from Bryan Kraft from Deutsche Bank. Bryan, go ahead with your question. Bryan Kraft Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. Q Hey, thanks, Anthony. Hey, Naveen. Hey, Bob. Naveen, can you just size the free cash flow investment into streaming investments over the next couple of years or maybe talk about the delta between EBITDA and free cash flow and when that might peak, just so we can help to model – help us model that? And, Bob, you and Chris McCarthy have talked recently and Chris talked today about emphasizing the companys shift to leveraging franchises in a bigger way. Can you talk about how thats going to really be different going forward than its been historically and what that means for the business and what youve se en so far and what gives you the conviction that thats going to really carry the subscriber growth that youre forecasting over the next few years? Thanks. Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Hey, Bryan. So, the answer on free cash flow, I think, is relatively straightforward. If you think about 2022 as an example, weve given you some sense of what to expect on earnings. I think the year - over - year change on free cash flow will actually be more moderate th an the change in earnings. And the reason for that is that we are seeing the benefit of significant working capital improvements that weve been able to make over the course of the last year and we expect to continue to do that. So, while thered be increm ental investment from an earnings perspective, cash flow impact should be a little more moderate. Bob? Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. And with respect to your question on franchises, we are absolutely increasing our focuses on franchises with respect to our content investments. I think if you look at the company historically, probably most of that franchise work was done at Nickelodeon and you saw us look to move quickly and benefit from that in the launch of ParamountPlus with The SpongeBob Movie and the first SpongeBob spinoff series, Kamp Koral. Since that time, including today, what you see is a broader commitment to franchises, including strategies which span theatrical to series. You heard that today with respect to Sonic, you see that with respect to Yellowstone spawning 1883 and we have a whole range of these in place. So, its really a philosophical change that connects with a one company mentality that crosses platforms and feeds stream ing. That is the step - function change in our embracing franchises. Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Great. Thank you, Bryan. Well take our next question from Brett Feldman at Goldman Sachs. Brett, go ahe ad with your question. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 25 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Brett Feldman Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Q Great. Can you hear me okay? Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yes. Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah, we can hear you fine. Brett Feldman Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Q Great. So, when you had outlined your initial expectation that you would be growing your content spending that you were allocating into the streaming business at the time from $1 billion to the $5 billion, youd indicated that that was not necessarily all going to be incremental to the company. Youve obviously had a tremendous amount of success with streaming products since then and youve co me out and signaled a desire to invest even more. So, the question would be, that additional $2 billion that you outlined by 2024, to what extent is that purely incremental and to what extent does it represent maybe a swifter reallocation away from your t raditional TV Media business? And just any more color you can give about whats driving that additional investment other than just more content? For example, are you going to be leaning a bit more into local language content outside the US? Thank you. Na veen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Hey, Brett, let me try to give you some additional color on that. And I think the essence of the question youre asking is really what happens to total company content spend in combination with the incremental investment were obviously making in D2C. And the answer to that is the following. While were investing aggressively in the D2C growth, we are also carefully managing spend in the traditional side of the business and that applies to both content investments as well as looking at other opportunities to unlock operational efficiency. Youve actually seen us do that quite extensively over the last couple of years, whether thats doing things like combining networks or looking for ways to find other efficiencies in operating expense. We think weve been quite innovative in being able to do that. And youll see us continue to pull those levers going forward. Youll also see us lean even more aggressively into leveragin g global production, which has significant benefits in terms of helping us create content much more efficiently. Take as an example some of the things that Chris McCarthy mentioned that hes doing with shows like The Challenge by leveraging global product ion capabilities. So, that formula is going to be a critical part of what allows us to run the business with total company content spend that is growing at a much, much lower rate than what youll see on the D2C side and its also a critical part of the eq uation to returning the company to earnings growth in 2024 and beyond. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 26 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Local language content investment? Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, with respect to local content, global content, we are strong believers in the importance of local content. Id point out, this is not a new concept for us. Weve been operating in geographies around the world for most of our history, as Bob pointed out. And we see tremendous opportunities to leverage a lot of the local content that already exists as well as combining that with global content from the US that travels well. Weve had many examples of that, whether its a Yellowstone or a Dexter. We also utilize global formats. You heard about that in Chris presentation as well. And were also now increasingly taking content thats produced in international markets and bringing it back to the United States. So, theres ma ny opportunities to take advantage of our global footprint and that is all part of how we have thought about our content expense over time. So, when we talk about the $6 billion of D2C content investment in 2024, that assumes a mix of both global content a nd locally - produced content. Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Great. Thanks so much, Brett. Well take our next question from Ben Swinburne at Morgan Stanley. Ben, go ahead. Benjamin Swinburne Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC Q Thank you. Good afternoon. Bob, since you came to Viacom, you have taken a new approach to distribution partnerships, which are obviously critical to driving Direct - to - Consumer. Im wondering if you could talk about your strateg y, based on what we heard this afternoon, to leverage distribution partnerships internationally and in the US and maybe you can, in your answer, address some of the concerns investors may have about your ability to maintain your pricing power and carriage position in the US, given how profitable that business is. Thank you. Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Sure, Ben. So, look, if you look at the history of the company, you see that weve long been a beli ever in ubiquitous distribution and executed in that way. And so, as we look at the D2C space, we believe ubiquitous distribution is a powerful lever to pull to drive access to largest potential TAM. Now, in doing so, we believe you need a strategy thats really multifaceted. And this is where you see us pursuing hard bundles, channel stores and pure D2C. And each of the strategies have different characteristics, but in totality, they are very powerful. So, on the hard bundle side, notably exemplified by S ky and by the Canal+ deal we announced today, there is an opportunity to get very quick sub base at a very low subscriber acquisition cost with minimal churn going forward. So, we like that a lot as we begin to build scale. You look at the channel store s ide, that provides access to a flow of traffic. Youre paying a little bit higher cost of sales, but again a nice chunk of users. And then, you got D2C, which gives you the highest ARPU and gives you access to the full marketplace. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 27 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC We think that, put together, creates the highest growth sub base with the most stability over time and again allows us to work with partners of different shapes and sizes in building our streaming business. You see us doing that, by the way, in the United States, too, whethe r thats working with an MVPD, where weve broadened our relationship to include not just linear channels, not just advanced ad sales, but also streaming apps, including free and pay. You see us doing that now with mobile carriers, like a T - Mobile, where we launched ParamountPlus late in 2021 and were looking forward to marketing kicking in at the end of the first quarter to really begin to drive that source of subscribers and then later billing integration in the middle of the second quarter or so. We thin k these partnerships are very powerful and were committed to leveraging them as we pursue this ubiquitous distribution and penetrate the largest addressable market. So, I hope that helps. Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, V iacomCBS, Inc. A Do you want to address MVPDs in the US? Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Well, I discussed them. Look, the MVPDs, if you look at that just broadly speaking, since we put this company t ogether, weve consistently gotten deals done, most recently with Comcast. Again, those deals are now very contemporary, in that they combine linear feeds, advanced ad sales, and apps; a very strong partnership, were clearly a cornerstone content provider , and we look forward to doing – growing business in that space, particularly as they go after broadband and leveraging their broadband accounts into video. Again, were a natural partner of theirs. Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Great. Thanks so much, Ben. Well take our next question from Rich Greenfield at Lightshed. Rich? Rich Greenfield Analyst, Lightshed Ventures Q Thanks, Anthony. Thanks for taking the questions. Ive actually got a few, and I know you said one, but just real quick. When – I guess for Bob to start off, when you say your platform is differentiated, what do you point to most? Like, what do you think differentiates ParamountPlus most from the other services that are out there? Two, I think, Naveen, I think you said D2C margins should approach linear margins. I think thats a question that investors sort of struggle to understand, just given sort of everybody paid for every channel versus just paying for what they want. So, like, how does that math sort of work out long term? And then just a quick housekeeping question. When you think about free cash flow, this year, obviously, your free cash flow didnt cover your dividend and you actually saw net debt rise. When you think about 2022 and 2023, how should we be thinking about those moving pieces relative to the increased investment you just mentioned? Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah, sure, Rich. Let me kick it off. So we absolutely have a differentiated strategy in streaming. That differentiation occurs on a couple dimensions which I outlined. It starts with content. As I said, we take the + in ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 28 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC ParamountPlus very seriously. We have the broadest selection account of content ou t there, including a full genre mix on the entertainment side, news, and of course, sports, NFL, European football, golf, NCAA, etcetera. So we think thats a real differentiator, and weve seen all of those lanes work together to drive our growth, includi ng in the fourth quarter, where were very pleased with the results. In addition to that, we believe the combination of free and pay, Pluto riding alongside ParamountPlus, is powerful and that were differentiated in that regard. Remember, we have the number one fast product in the United States, and based on the statistics Ive seen, our lead in the United States increased in the fourth quarter, even though we were already the number one player. Third point, youve seen us how were using our broader range of platforms to drive. I think were doing that better than anyone else. Look at what we did with Yellowstone into 1883, look at the integration with Halo and the NFL playoffs, were really leveraging these platforms. And lastly, the global side of this t hing. Weve been operating on the ground internationally for decades. I believe with respect to the distribution strategy we have, including hard bundles, we are an innovator. It is highly beneficial strategy. Youll see the benefit in 2022. And by the way , youre going to see other people following us because we are already seeing that beginning to happen. But just like we benefited by being the market leader and fast and being there earlier, were here early and you got a first mover advantage. So, we got a lot of differentiation in place. Its working really well and its going to pay real dividends going forward. Naveen? Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, Rich, the answer to your question fir st on margins is really an extension of what Bob described which is that we are executing a fundamentally different playbook when it comes to building our D2C business. And in fact, a lot of the things that were doing actually replicate some of the econom ic benefits that you see in the traditional universe, specifically with regard to some of the things that you mentioned. So, whether it is the ability to leverage content across multiple platforms, whether its the ability to use bundles and other partners hips to acquire subs efficiently and ensure that they dont churn the way that they might in a pure - play D2C business, whether its the ability to use our built - in promotional platform or our global production capabilities, were talking about a very diffe rent version of streaming economics than what you would see in a pure - play streaming business. And thats why we think about the long - term margin potential very differently. With respect to your question on free cash flow, I point out a couple of things. Number one, as I said, we do think the free cash flow impact of the investments that were making is more moderate than what youll see on the P&L. Moreover, we have a very strong balance sheet as we move into greater investment mode in D2C over the next f ew years. Remember, we finished the year with $6.8 billion – excuse me, $6.3 billion of cash on the balance sheet, more than enough firepower to make the investments that we envision in streaming. We have no near - term maturities, and we continue to maintai n a significant amount of revolver capacity. So, we like our financial position. Were very well - equipped to invest to capture the growth on D2C and to continue to fulfill all of our financial priorities, which, as Ive articulated before, include investi ng in organic growth through streaming, it includes funding our dividend, and it includes deleveraging our balance sheet. And I think youll actually see us doing all three of those things in 2022. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 29 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Rel ations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Great. Thanks for the multiple questions, Rich. Well take our next question from John Hodulik at UBS. John? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Great. Thanks, guys. Two questions, if I may. First, on the licensing s ide, you guys had another strong quarter of content licensing but at the same time talked about how you were pulling back on the Pay1 window a couple of years. Could you just talk about – maybe you could quantify the impact of that change and just maybe gi ve us some color on how you expect that line to trend over the next couple of years? Thats number one. And then just a quick follow - up just anything you could tell us about your appetite for international sports rights. I think, Bob, you guys laid out some new rights you have in Mexico and Central America with football. And I think theres some new stores out potentially bidding on the IPL in India, but just – any thoughts around that or for new rights you guys could acquire in the future. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Sure, John. So, look, on the content licensing side, as you know, weve made a strategic pivot at ViacomCBS, now Paramount, to pointing our content engines at our streaming pla tform, notably ParamountPlus. Weve already seen early benefit from that in terms of the fourth quarter and we believe that is fundamentally the right thing to do as we look to create asset value and theres clear examples of asset value creation in the strea ming space where youre successful. And again, we intend to be successful. So were doing that. In parallel to that, we are continuing to fulfill deals we put in place pre - ParamountPlus. So, those are like season end plus one of a particular show, maybe Jack Ryan as an example. We have contracts in place and were going to continue to do that. We also continue to do some selective, non - exclusive licensing, which we found to be an effective franchise development tool as we continue to build new versions of pro duct again for ParamountPlus. So, you should expect us to do that over time. Again, we think its strategically right and we think we also have some incremental financial benefit from that. In terms of your question on international sports rights. Look, its early days, but weve seen real benefit of sports as part of ParamountPlus in the United States. The NFL, as you saw in one of the charts, was the number one source of subscriber additions for the product in 2021 and we have found that we can cross consumers , bring them in on sports, and get them to consume entertainment product. Sports fans, as an example, in the fourth quarter were also big consumers of shows like SEAL Team and Mayor of Kingstown and 1883. And thats key to our overall plan and economics an d ROI. So were looking and selectively at adding sports product internationally. Weve done some of that in Latin America. Weve done some of that in Australia. The IPL thing in India is really Viacom18, which is our joint venture over there. So, again, we think sports is additive and certainly a differentiator for us. You need to be disciplined in terms of how much you pay and you need to be effective in terms of extracting the value, including through co - usage of other product. But sports is definitely part of our streaming playbook. And by the way, we have a lot of benefit from our CBS Sports heritage as we pursue that opportunity. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 30 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Great. Thanks so much, John. Well take our next question from Jason Bazinet at Citi. Jason, go ahead with your question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jason Boisvert Bazinet Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. Q Thanks so much. Maybe a little bit of a complicated question. But under the old accounting standards for film or television, you would amortize based on matching revenues, right, as a percent of your ultimate revenues. So the margins are sort of the consistent all the way through. In the streaming world, I think the amortization is a function of the strea ms and it sort of ignores the fact that the consumer gets more utility out of new content versus old. So, how do you – how can anyone have confidence that the streaming business is going to be a good of a business as your new TV media segment as an example ? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Hey, Jason. Ill take a shot at that. First, just in terms of understanding the methodology on allocation. First very big picture, as I said in the prepared remarks, o ur general approach to cost allocation is based on the relative value of windows that any given service has rights to exploit. So that addresses sort of how we allocate costs between, for instance, theatrical and streaming, if a movie starts in the theater and then ultimately ends up on ParamountPlus. In terms of the allocation within streaming, we actually dont entirely allocate based on the methodology you described. There is a recognition of the fact that content tends to have significantly more value in its early days on a streaming service. So, a lot of the [ph] amort (02:12:35) is accelerated and then spread over time. It is one of the reasons why, as we continue to build our library and assemble more and more content on ParamountPlus, we believe there is an opportunity for leverage in the model. I mentioned in my prepared remarks that one of the things that takes us through that inflection point is peak losses in D2C in 2023 is the fact that were then at a point in time where were actually starting to s ee things roll off from an amortization perspective as opposed to in the first few years, everythings coming in, nothings coming out. So, you really start to see the operating leverage improve in the business, at that point in time. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A I also just want to add one other point because something you said is not reflective of what we see in streaming. You said that only new content matters in terms of streaming consumption. Th ats actually categorically not true. It is true that new originals are key to subscriber acquisition. But what is tremendously valuable in streaming is library and specifically series that are deep in number of seasons. So you look at the NCISs, the FBIs, the SEAL Teams, the SpongeBobs, et cetera, those are tremendously valuable for, in some cases, bringing people in, but for the most part in terms of engagement, and engagement is what you use to manage churn. So, with respect to the value of content, it s not all about exclusive originals. These libraries are highly valuable. And when you look at Paramount, which what we call the company now, we have very deep, very high quality libraries from the original Paramount Studio from CBS, from Showtime, from th e cable networks, and those are tremendously valuable for streaming both for Paramount + and for Pluto TV. So dont lose sight of that value because it is very material and its key to our long - term streaming economics as well. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 31 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Anthony DiClemente Executi ve Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Thanks a lot, Jason. Now, well take our last question from Steve Cahall at Wells Fargo. Steve, go ahead. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Steven Cahall Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC Q Hi. Thanks. Just one kind of long domestic question. So I was wondering if you could talk about where you think you are in domestic journey in terms of subs for ParamountPlus and where that can go. And similarly, you talked about the $9 ARPU as we think about both subscription and advertising revenue, how do you think about the upside to domestic ARPU? And just while were on domestic Paramount +, I think if you could go back in time you might look at a slightly different arrangement for some of the early seasons of Yellowstone which are on a competitor service, do you have any levers you can pull in the next couple of years to consolidate the Yellowstone library entirely on the Paramount +? Thank you. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Steve, so let me start there. So I would say we are very early in the ParamountPlus subscriber journey. Remember, this product didnt exist a year ago today, so weve seen it build through calendar 2021 after launching in the March timeframe. But really, the fourth quarter was the first time we had anything resembling scale in the scripted side, for example. So theres a ways to go in terms of the scale ParamountPlus will build in the United States and you saw it today, really, the incredible content lineup we ha ve coming across all of these genres. So, again, I think there is a lot of headroom here on subscribers. Ill address the Yellowstone point and then flip it to Naveen for ARPU. With respect to Yellowstone, youre right, that deal was done pre the ViacomCB S merger. Thats unfortunate. Rather than just forego that opportunity, we chose to aggressively get into spin - off series like 1883, related series in terms of the creator in Mayor of Kingstown, you saw some more stuff coming, thats working very well for us. Yellowstone is part of ParamountPlus internationally, so thats how we think of that franchise today. Naveen? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Let me jump in on ARPU. We continue to be very encouraged by what weve seen from an ARPU perspective, particularly in the domestic market. You saw in the prepared remarks, the $9 paid ARPU that we experienced in Q4. We see continued upside in domestic ARPU, both short term and long term. Short term, t here are really two key factors. We expect that therell be a benefit from the continued conversion of promotional and trial subscribers to fully paid subs. We continue to see very healthy trial to paid conversion rate, so we actually see that as a compell ing opportunity for the service, both from an ARPU and an overall revenue perspective. We also expect to see continued improvements in the monetization of advertising on the Essentials tier of ParamountPlus, the Essentials tier is a significant portion of ou r subscriber base, both actually Essentials and Premium sort of balanced composition, but we have seen improvements in the ad ARPU thats generated on the Essentials tier as engagement continues to grow with the service and we expect that will continue as we add more and more content to ParamountPlus. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q4 2021 Earnings Call - Investor Event Corrected Transcript 15 - Feb - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 32 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC And then longer term, we also see ARPU upside coming out of the ability to adjust price as the content selection on the service continues to grow and as use of ParamountPlus becomes even more habitual. And I think well probably get some tailwind in that regard from the category in general where youre seeing pricing continue to move upward. So there will likely be opportunities for us to adjust price and still maintain our value proposition relative to others. So, were very bullish about where ARPU can grow and it is, as I pointed out, definitely one of the key ingredients to how we grow the business from a little over $3 billion of D2C revenue today to $9 billion plus in 2024. Its not just about adding subscribe rs, its about adding subscribers and growing ARPU. So we really like that equation and the growth that it can create ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. Great. Thanks, Naveen. And thank all of you for your time, for your questions today. Its an important dialogue, and its really an exciting time for the company we now call Paramount. Look, this is a time characterized by great momentum and its a time reflective of tremendous go - forward opportunity. So, a gain, we appreciate you joining us. We appreciate your continued support and wish everyone well. Well talk to you soon."
"Paramount";"Earnings Transcript";"REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call EVENT DATE/TIME: FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Anthony Joseph DiClemente ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Brian Robbins ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Kids & Family Entertainment for ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks Chris McCarthy ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Entertainment & Youth Brands of ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks David Nevins ViacomCBS Inc. - Chief Creative Officer George Cheeks ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of CBS Entertainment Group Kelly Day ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Streaming & COO of ViacomCBS Networks International Naveen Chopra ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Robert Marc Bakish ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Scott Morgan Mills ViacomCBS Inc. - President of BET Networks Shari E. Redstone ViacomCBS Inc. - Non-Executive Chair Thomas Ryan ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of Streaming CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Alexia Skouras Quadrani JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Benjamin Daniel Swinburne Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Brett Joseph Feldman Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst John Janedis Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Media Analyst John Christopher Hodulik UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD, Sector Head of the United States Communications Group and Telco & Pay TV Analyst Michael C. Morris Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Richard Scott Greenfield LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst Robert S. Fishman MoffettNathanson LLC - Analyst Steven Lee Cahall Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Vijay A. Jayant Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division - Senior MD and Head of Media, Entertainment, Cable, Satellite & Telecommunication Chris McCarthy Viacom Music & Entertainment Group - President of MTV, VH1, Logo & CMT David Nevins Showtime Networks Inc. - CEO & Chairman Gayle King James N. Gianopulos Paramount Pictures Corporation - Chairman & CEO Julie McNamara Kenya Barris Nicole Clemens Paramount Pictures Corporation - President of Paramount Television Norah ODonnell Trevor Noah Tyler Perry 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call PRESENTATION Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Good afternoon. My name is Anthony DiClemente, and I am the Head of Investor Relations at ViacomCBS. It is my pleasure to welcome you to our Streaming Investor Event and Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2020 Earnings Presentation. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that certain statements made in todays presentation are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Information about these risks and uncertainties are discussed in more detail in our filings with the SEC. Some of todays financial remarks will focus on adjusted results. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings release or in our trending schedules, which contain supplemental information, and in each case, can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website. With that being said, on behalf of everyone at ViacomCBS, I would like to thank you for taking the time to join us this afternoon. And now sit back, relax, and enjoy the show. (presentation) Shari E. Redstone - ViacomCBS Inc. - Non-Executive Chair Thank you, everyone, for joining us. This is a big day, a new day, a new beginning. And were so excited that you tuned in as we celebrate our vision for the company we share, the content we make and the consumers we serve. Im speaking to you from Paramount Pictures, which is one of the first movie studios in the world and the last working studio located in Hollywood. My father loved this lot. He loved everything that was created here, and he believed that its future could be even greater than its proud, storied past. I believe it, too, especially today, a year after we brought together Viacom and CBS. When I thought about what that might look like, today is exactly the kind of day I had in mind. The breadth and depth of the creative firepower that you are about to see from this unified company is truly breathtaking. And the incredible executive team presenting it is as talented and experienced a group as Ive ever seen. If your impression of ViacomCBS is still rooted in what we were 3 or 5 or 10 years ago, I invite you to take a fresh look. This is not your fathers Viacom, and its not my fathers either. This is a ViacomCBS that is being reimagined for a new kind of marketplace and a new kind of consumer. As Bob Bakish has said, despite the challenges posed by the world around us, our companys transformation is ahead of schedule. We are optimizing the power of our combined assets and IP. Were unlocking more power in distribution. Were driving growth in subscribers, and were rapidly realizing the cost savings we promised when we announced the merger. Were now building on this new foundation and on our legacy of innovation. Simply put, we are better positioned to succeed because we have the best team in the industry, and we are better on the fundamentals. Our leadership in creative teams, our culture, our values, all of this proceeds and informs the vision and the strategy. And we have the vision and the strategy to win and to grow. For all of these reasons, 1 year in, the market is beginning to recognize the value of the company. And we hope that soon, it will fully recognize that value. You know us as a value stock. But what we are going to show you today is that inside our value company is a powerful engine for growth, one that can propel this company faster and further. It starts and ends with content, and I want to be super clear about this. We are not confused about what we do. We are a pure-play content company. Every single day, were working toward 2 mutually reinforcing objectives: first, to maximize the quantity and quality of content, what people want to see, wherever they want to see it; and second, to maximize the value of that content for the long term and for all of our shareholders. The business case is pretty simple. Consumers are demanding a world-class experience with world-class content. My father famously said, Content is king. Today, we affirm anew that ViacomCBS is indeed one of the kings of content. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Through ParamountPlus, we will offer consumers a unique combination of live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment. Some people will tell you that a company like ours has to choose, that were either all in on linear or all in on streaming. We think thats a false choice. Were not about only linear or only streaming. Were about both linear and streaming. The industry is transitioning. But for consumers, its happening at different paces in different places. We will live in this hybrid environment for a while, but we are the company that is best positioned to enable this transition over time. Wherever consumers like to experience their favorite shows and movies today, our promise to you is simple. We will be everywhere you need us to be, on every platform that matters to you with content, creativity and experiences that are second to none, and audiences will stay with us because of that, because of our integrated ecosystem of free, pay and premium streaming platforms that support strong, long-lasting consumer relationships. In the process, we will deliver to our shareholders a whole that is far greater than the sum of its parts. This is a new day for ViacomCBS. And to share more, I am pleased to welcome our President and CEO, Bob Bakish. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Thank you, Shari, and hello, everyone. On behalf of the ViacomCBS senior leadership team, thank you for joining us on this exciting day. Paramount was the first studio to make a full-length feature film back in 1912. In the century since, Paramount has been home to some of the biggest stars and the biggest movies and television series in Hollywood history. Paramount has also had a front-row seat on every innovation to propel the entertainment industry forward, from the advent of sound and color, to the rise of broadcast television, to the birth and rapid expansion of the Internet. Today, that landscape is being reshaped again as the industry transitions from linear-based platforms to streaming video. So this lot is the perfect backdrop to launch an exciting new chapter for the Paramount brand and for ViacomCBS. Paramount has thrived through the years for a simple reason because Paramount tells stories that people love. This is a brand that hasnt just produced iconic movies like The Godfather and Top Gun, but also legendary television series like The Brady Bunch, Star Trek and Cheers. Paramount has proven that no matter how technology changes the industry, great content will always win in the end. And that same commitment to telling great stories also sits at the heart of the flagship brands of ViacomCBS. Whether on demand, on broadcast or on the big screen, theres one truth we pride ourselves on that connects all of our brand experiences. We know how to make hits. ViacomCBS has been and remains a consistent hit maker across genres, across demographics, across formats and across platforms. Across our studios, were one of the biggest suppliers of premium original content in the industry today, with nearly 900 shows in production this year. In addition to hits on our own networks around the world, every major streaming service has had a monster hit from one of our studios. We have made or licensed for third parties some of the most-watched shows and movies of the streaming era, including 13 Reasons Why, Emily in Paris, Dead to Me, Jack Ryan, Avatar, The Haunting of Bly Manor and many others. The original shows weve made for others is proof of the power of our content in the streaming era. And we also know that if we direct that same great content engine back to our own streaming service and unleash that same knack for producing original hits to attract our own subscribers, we can be successful. And thats exactly what were setting out to do. A year ago, I said we were going to supersize CBS All Access, but weve done much more than that. Weve transformed CBS All Access into ParamountPlus. ParamountPlus will be one of the only streaming services to combine live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment, a mountain of entertainment built on a portfolio of world-renowned brands. Its all your favorites, all in one place. Going forward, the combined creative firepower, franchises and IP of Paramount, CBS, MTV, Nickelodeon, Comedy Central, BET and the Smithsonian Channel will be focused on creating original hits for ParamountPlus. And ParamountPlus will also be home to their massive libraries. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call As youll hear over the next couple of hours, ParamountPlus comes to the streaming space with real advantages that our competitors do not have and with a strategy thats unique to the marketplace. As the streaming segment continues to evolve and mature, we believe consumers will increasingly be looking for the combination of genres that have long made linear television popular. And ours will be the first service that can do it at scale in each of them, all in one place. It starts with live sports. CBS was a pioneer of live sports on television more than 7 decades ago with coverage of college football, PGA golf and the NFL. College basketball found a home on CBS 4 decades ago. Today, ParamountPlus is helping to bring those sports and more into the streaming era, with over 1,000 live sporting events a year. It will have exclusive matches and tournaments that fans love most, from the NFL to the National Womens Soccer League, from March Madness to the Masters. And well have Messi, Ronaldo and Neymar competing for some of soccers biggest cups. Few other streaming services will offer live sports at this scale. The same is true of breaking news. There are a few brands more storied or celebrated in journalism than CBS News. Back when giants like Edward R. Murrow walked its halls, CBS invented broadcast news. 8 decades later, our award-winning news programs and franchises, like the renowned 60 Minutes, are among the most watched and trusted in the world. And now that commitment to excellence is carrying over to the streaming era. ParamountPlus is the only streaming service where well-informed citizens will get both a 24-hour news network and local news and weather from 200 local affiliates across America. Now we know that fans of sports and news also have this in common. When the game or the news is done, they like to find other content to watch. And as youve seen from our marketing campaign, we have a mountain of entertainment for them to enjoy. How big is that mountain? As youll see today, its a lot bigger than you think. It starts with more than 30,000 episodes of iconic television from some of the most popular franchises of all time, and were building on that library immediately with a broad slate of original content that were thrilled to tell you about. This year alone, ParamountPlus will debut 36 original series across key genre lanes. And it will also have some unforgettable original movies, content that subscribers wont get anywhere else. Now if you like reality TV, ParamountPlus is the place for you. Remember, ViacomCBS invented the genre with MTVs The Real World back in 1992, and weve dominated it globally ever since. ParamountPlus will have more than 5,000 episodes of the biggest reality hits, including the most-watched reality series on all of television and 4 of the most popular reality franchises on cable. And we will debut a new reality series every single month in 2021. If youre a parent looking for outstanding kids programming, we have beloved characters and global franchises that have ranked in first place with kids and families for 25 years straight, a library of nearly 7,000 episodes of the most popular series ever and some extraordinary new original series and movies for kids on the way this year, including new versions of a certain sponge that lives under the sea. If scripted dramas are what you love, ParamountPlus will, of course, benefit from our top-rated broadcast network and studios that produce original programming on a huge scale. And we dont just develop shows. We develop powerful, beloved series and franchises that are as popular on streaming as they are on broadcast, cable and the big screen. On ParamountPlus, youll see powerful new versions of well-established television IP, amazing spinoffs based on franchise movies and of course, some of the best new ideas from creators responsible for a number of the most acclaimed series streaming today. The good news is that if you helped make our scripted dramas big hits on other services, theres a good chance that the next chapters or spinoff of your favorite franchises will be coming soon, only to ParamountPlus. In addition to reality, kids and scripted dramas, we also have more than 6,000 episodes of the worlds funniest comedy programming and dozens of documentaries coming from award-winning film makers, including sports and news docks. Were thrilled about all of that. And let me tell you what were most excited about. If you love movies, our service will do justice to the Paramount name. We will provide an unforgettable range of some of the most exciting movies ever made for the ParamountPlus consumer. As you will hear in more detail from Jim Gianopulos, movies will come to ParamountPlus in a variety of ways. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call First, some of the biggest, most anticipated new Paramount films will go exclusively to ParamountPlus 30 to 45 days after their theatrical release. Second, all other new Paramount movies will appear on ParamountPlus after their theatrical run, some as early as 90 days. In addition, new movies from MGM will also appear on ParamountPlus during the Pay1 window. Third, the powerful hit-making studios across all of ViacomCBS are ramping up production to provide a continuous flow of new original movies made exclusively for ParamountPlus. And fourth, all of these new offerings will be underpinned by a library with over 2,500 titles from Paramount, Miramax and a number of other leading Hollywood studios, which includes some of the most popular films and franchises of all time. In short, if you love movies, ParamountPlus is a streaming service that you cant live without. So we have incredible breadth and depth of content coming. Truly, thats what we mean by a mountain of entertainment. Today, were thrilled to show you the original storytelling thats coming in ParamountPlus. And here to tell us more about that mountain of entertainment is a man who started more genres in his own right than you can count, our very own, James Corden. Unidentified Participant Thank you, Bob. Its great to be here, and welcome, investors, or should I call you sharks? When Bob asked me to speak here, of course, I said yes. Not only is he my boss, but what else am I going to say? Where am I going to be right now? Am I going to be like, oh, sorry, Ive got a really packed day just lying on the living room floor, staring at the corner of a rug. But seriously, though, its great to see you, Bob. It really is. We dont get the opportunity too often. Were both very busy. He spends his days navigating an ever-changing media landscape. I spend my days telling actors how much I enjoyed their films that Ive never actually seen. But heres what you need to know. ParamountPlus is coming March 4, and there is so much amazing content. And as the host of The Late Late Show with James Corden, I know a thing or 2 about amazing content. Every 5 or 6 episodes, we actually manage to produce some. ParamountPlus brings together the best in live sports, breaking news, childrens shows, comedy, drama, reality and whatever spy wars with Damian Lewis. But Ill say that again, live sports, breaking news and an unbelievable mountain of entertainment. I havent left my house in 9 months, and now it looks like I dont need to be leaving for the next 9 either. Now we all know that there are a lot of streaming services out there. But when it comes to streaming, ParamountPlus is doing things differently. We break the mold. Here are just a few ways ParamountPlus is different from those other streaming services. First off, I have it on good authority that there are 0 other streaming services named ParamountPlus. And I promise you this, if our service goes down, Bob has promised to personally fly to each customers homes and act out their favorite television episodes for them. I mean what other streaming CEO would do that? But seriously, ParamountPlus has so many shows and movies to offer. It has Peppa Pig and the Jersey Shore. And I cant say this for certain, but if you invest enough, there might be a crossover. ParamountPlus also has the new SpongeBob SquarePants movie as well as the original SpongeBob Show. This is great news for both children and adults who live anywhere where weed is legal. Whats that? You want Mission Impossible movies? Well, we got them. Weve got Missions Impossible. Heres the thing about those films. The mission was always eventually possible. Thats basically what every single movie was about. They should have called them Mission Difficult. But weve got them, and its still a great watch. Weve also got Love Island. Ive got a soft spot for Love Island because just like Love Island, Im also a sexy import from Britain. ParamountPlus has so many incredible shows, but I want to highlight one show in particular, and thats The Late Late Show with James Corden. Honestly, you dont even have to watch it. Just click play and go in the other room. Thats what my family does. And heres a promise. Whether its an announcer for Real Madrid during Champions League Soccer or just an episode of Jersey Shore, you will get plenty of good use out of the subtitles feature. Now that Ive told you about ParamountPlus, its time for me to throw back to Bob. Bob? 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Thanks, James. Lastly, let me say that ParamountPlus is not the only part of our streaming strategy that makes us unique. Were also the only media company to fully embrace an ecosystem of free, pay and premium streaming services. That starts with free. We acquired Pluto TV 2 years ago because it is a compelling, free, ad-based complement to linear and streaming video. Today, Pluto is the #1 free ad-supported streaming television service in the United States and is quickly becoming a leading fast service around the world. Pluto may not be a planet, but it sure looks like a rocket ship. And its well on its way to being a $1 billion business, and its not going to stop there. On the premium side of the spectrum, we have Showtime OTT and BET Plus. We believe strongly in the premium space because it attracts a different kind of consumer, one who values provocative, cutting-edge content and storytelling that takes risks. All told, no matter where you are on your streaming journey, we have fantastic content for you. This is a differentiated winning strategy. One of the reasons Im so excited about our streaming future is that we have Tom Ryan, the visionary who built Pluto TV and a master at seeing and acting upon white spaces, driving our streaming execution across free, pay and premium. As Tom will tell you, you dont want to miss the chance to be part of it. Its my pleasure to introduce the President and CEO of Streaming at ViacomCBS, Tom Ryan. Thomas Ryan - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of Streaming Thanks, Bob. Ive spent most of my career as an entrepreneur, creating, launching and leading companies that reflect the things I love: great music, art, fashion, film and TV. Each of these companies was unique. They span different industries. But what made them successful was something they all had in common, each used curation to solve the paradox of choice, delivering not just the right product or content, but the right experience for every consumer. Whether youre talking about music playlists, design collections or channels in the case of my most recent startup, Pluto TV. Curation is the differentiator, which means my job description really hasnt changed much over the years because delivering the right content and the right experience is not just a part of the streaming strategy were discussing today. Its the whole ball game. Starting with the center piece of that strategy, a new paid service that we believe represents the next evolution of streaming beyond CBS All Access, beyond film and TV as we know it, where no one has gone before. (presentation) Thomas Ryan - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of Streaming Live sports plus breaking news plus a mountain of entertainment, ParamountPlus, the next exciting chapter for one of the most storied brands in Hollywood. A brand-new, one stop, live and on-demand streaming service with one of the broadest content experiences across more genres and the hit-making power of ViacomCBS at our backs. Were leveraging our massive catalog, our key franchises and storied IP and some of the worlds greatest content creators to assemble a truly unique and compelling service. With more than 30,000 episodes and more than 2,500 movies and more on the way, the sheer depth and breadth of content makes ParamountPlus a world-class streaming service on day 1. Were putting more of what people want in one place because we know most viewers come to us for more than just entertainment. And ParamountPlus is uniquely positioned to serve this large audience of people who love all kinds of content in the streaming space. But its not just about aggregation. Were curating all of this amazing content by brand and genre to deliver the combination of news, sports and entertainment that we know people will flock to. Our user experience is built around the joy of discovery. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And ParamountPlus doesnt just get the basics right. Were delivering an on-demand experience with originals in 4K, HDR and Dolby Vision, mobile downloads so its easy to watch your favorite shows and movies on-the-go and cross-platform dynamic play functionality that lets you pick up right where you left off. Our personally curated carousels use machine learning to offer recommendations for every family member. This encourages deeper scrolling, presents users with more new shows and movies to love and leads to more streams and longer viewing times. Weve rebuilt our entire live experience, and were introducing a new feature called On Now, which provides immediate access to content playing on our live channels, including CBS, CBSN and CBS Sports HQ. You can watch games and matches from our growing lineup of exclusive sports programming, get breaking national and local news or catch up with award-winning daily and weekly shows like 60 Minutes, CBS This Morning or the CBS Evening News. Were even taking what we learned about curation from the explosive growth of Pluto TV and applying it to ParamountPlus. The service will expand over time to include new curated linear channels of movies, shows and originals, offering an effortless lean-back experience. And its not just that content from each of our brands can be discovered throughout the service, curation means every one of them, from CBS to Nickelodeon to Comedy Central to MTV to BET and more, will have a dedicated home on ParamountPlus. We know from our research that when it comes to choosing what to watch, these iconic brands are already deeply trusted content curators in their own right. Theyre universally known and loved. Each comes to the service with a deep library of fan favorites, plus an all-new slate of originals you wont be able to find anywhere else. And nearly all have greater than 90% brand awareness. Just seeing these logos makes it easier and faster to find what youre looking for. But its the way these lanes come together when we reach across brands and start to think about the leading genres that generate the most interest and excitement, engagement and retention, from sports to news, to movies, from kids to scripted dramas to reality shows and everything in between, thats when you start to get a sense of how powerful this new service really is. And we havent just dominated these genres. In many cases, we pioneered them in markets around the world. Take a look. (presentation) Thomas Ryan - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of Streaming ParamountPlus is home to the leading franchises and some of the most valuable IP, not just in the streaming space but in all of entertainment. Curation means maximizing this IP and expanding these beloved franchises from SpongeBob to Star Trek and beyond, to attract and engage with the millions upon millions of passionate fans who love these stories, know everything about their favorite characters and would follow them anywhere. Soon, theyll follow them to ParamountPlus. But were not just relying on brand recognition. We know that we need to keep turning out high-quality, groundbreaking content to expand our audiences trust, extend our lead and take our indelible dynamic library to the next level. So were going to hear directly from the brand leads behind this work, starting with George Cheeks, President and CEO, CBS Entertainment Group, about how our studio content engines are kicking into high gear, making bold new investments and creating an all-new lineup of unforgettable shows and movies exclusively for ParamountPlus. (presentation) George Cheeks - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of CBS Entertainment Group Thanks, [Ru]. Thats a serious view youve got up there. Now as Bob said earlier, ParamountPlus stands out because it provides the full breadth of programming that consumers love. In addition to all the entertainment content CBS will bring to ParamountPlus, were also contributing 2 of the services biggest differentiators, live sports and breaking news. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call So lets talk about live sports. Its a huge passion point in our lives and the #1 acquisition driver for our current streaming service. Fans come to us because we have college football and basketball. Weve got the PGA TOUR. Weve got marquee events like the Super Bowl, NCAA March Madness, the Masters and the PGA Championship. And of course, we have the NFL. Its televisions most valuable property by far, attracting massive audiences and major advertisers. And it will be fundamental to the growth of ParamountPlus. It drives more subscriptions than any other program and significant engagement, too. Time spent streaming NFL games grew 88% this season alone. Any NFL game you can watch on CBS, you can stream on ParamountPlus. Bottom line, everything sports fans love on CBS, everything that brings them to us and everything that keeps them with us, our marquee properties, regular season games, playoffs, championships, all of this will be available on ParamountPlus. Were also doubling down on soccer for ParamountPlus. Its the worlds most popular sport with billions of fans globally. And its rapidly growing here in the U.S. among young, diverse, enthusiastic digital natives, exactly the type of audience thats drawn to streaming. Plus its year round, which means no seasonal churn. So as we look to the future, we are making soccer a core pillar of sports exclusively available on ParamountPlus. We will be the home of UEFA, including the popular Champions League, Europa League and Europa Conference League and the only place in the U.S. where you can find every match, every season. Thats hundreds of exclusive matches with renowned clubs like Man City, Barcelona and Bayern Munich. UEFA currently drives more new subscriptions than any sports partner except the NFL. Now for fans of Megan Rapinoe, Julie Ertz or Carli Lloyd, ParamountPlus also will be the home of the National Womens Soccer League, with full regular season coverage and now the Challenge Cup. In addition to this, weve added exclusive U.S. English language rights to 3 more soccer properties and hundreds of additional matches. Well have more than 200 matches from CONCACAF, covering 41 national teams across North and Central America and the Caribbean, including high-profile matches for the U.S. mens and womens national teams as well as the Womens World Cup qualifiers. Well have more than 300 matches a year from Argentinas top soccer division with more than a century of history and some of the most famous rivalries in the world. Well have 360 matches a year from Brazils premier soccer league, known for holding the most club world champion titles and for producing exceptional young superstars. With the breadth of our sports programming available on ParamountPlus as well as the depth of new exclusive matches and tournaments, few other streaming services will offer live sports at this scale. So lets hear what this means for fans from the people who know them best. (presentation) George Cheeks - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of CBS Entertainment Group Thanks, guys. Now as Jim and Tony know, fans dont stop watching when players stop playing. So while ParamountPlus will be the leader in live sports, well also have original programming that will take fans even deeper into the sports they love. Heres just one example. Inside the NFL, its a go-to program for NFL fans with the most respected experts in the industry offering an inside look at Americas most popular sport. And its coming exclusively to ParamountPlus. This is exactly the kind of programming that turns new subscribers into lifelong fans, and its just the beginning. Now beyond sports, ParamountPlus will give you deeper insight into our world with breaking news and impactful journalism from the award-winning CBS News team. Truth matters, and today, more than ever, we need best-in-class unbiased journalism that brings us the news as soon as it happens and unpacks the most pressing questions of the day with context and with perspective. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call This is what CBS News stands for. Time-honored broadcasts with steadfast followers, trusted journalists who help people understand not just whats happening, but why? And who better to speak to the power of CBS News than Norah ODonnell and Gayle King. Gayle King Hey, George, as you can see, Im here with your favorite evening news anchor, thats Norah ODonnell. Hey, Norah. Norah ODonnell Hey, Gayle, and hey, George. Hi, everybody. So good to be here. Gayle King This truly is an unprecedented time for us. Now its not just about reporting a story. Its about why it matters. And that is the reason we go after and talk to the key people at the heart of every story at the end of the day, Norah. We know thats what really matters. Norah ODonnell Its so true. CBS News and all of the reporters here have a mission, to break news, to tell stories that may never see the light of day if it werent for our relentless efforts to listen, report and bring important issues to the public. Thats what all of our shows really do. Gayle King We hope so. This is a home of some of the most honored and iconic news franchises in the world from CBS This Morning, thats me, Anthony Mason, Tony Dokoupil. CBS Evening News with Norah ODonnell. 60 Minutes. CBS Sunday Morning with Jane Pauley. Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan, 48 hours. And the list goes on and on. Norah ODonnell The very best shows. And also, we tell the new stores that are compelling, and we do interviews that have impact. Im proud to be part of CBS News and excited that we will be bringing the best news content in the business to ParamountPlus alongside live sports and a mountain of entertainment, yes, all in one place. Gayle King Yes, Norah. Im proud, too. Definitely exciting for all of us here at CBS News. George, your turn. Back to you. George Cheeks - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of CBS Entertainment Group Thanks so much, Gayle and Norah. So in addition to the news programs our viewers already love, ParamountPlus will be home to brand-new series based on our award-winning franchises. First, 60 Minutes Plus, a compelling new version of the world-renowned News Magazine and the #1 news program in America. The program will feature the famous ticking stopwatch as well as the hallmark storytelling that has made it a Sunday night favorite for generations, investigations that expose injustice, correspondents who travel the globe to interview world leaders and cultural icons who open up and reveal their true selves, respected award-winning journalists, Enrique Acevedo, Wes Lowery, Laurie Segall and Seth Doane will speak directly to the next generation of viewers on a news magazine built for them. Thats 60 Minutes Plus exclusively on ParamountPlus. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Next up, the new 48 Hour true crime docuseries, exclusive for ParamountPlus. Its called a lie detector. A Texas ranger who has spent 25 years getting into the minds of killers in high-profile, twisted murder cases. He will take viewers behind the scenes into some of the most infamous cases he has handled. Youll find the same style and quality of true crime reporting youve come to expect from the producers of the Emmy and Peabody award-winning 48 Hours. But this time, in a new and compelling original format. And then theres CBSN. CBS News is global 24/7 digital new service. Its a live, anchored stream with breaking news and round-the-clock coverage. Now its been embedded within CBS All Access since 2017, which means weve had a big head start with a streaming news service on a premium service. Weve got years of data on what news stories people consume as well as how and when they consume it. We know our CBSN audience is 20 years younger than our broadcast audience. Also, viewers who streamed CBSN daily last year spent an average of 55 minutes on the service. And CBSN broke records in 2020 with more than 1 billion streams across platforms and connected devices. Thats a year-over-year increase of 200%. All of this showcases our strength in storytelling. And increasingly, we see audiences hungry for shows that document history from the distant past to history thats being made today. So Im excited to tell you about just a few of the amazing documentaries from all across ViacomCBS that were bringing to ParamountPlus. For sports, well bring fans up close to the greatest sports figures and the moments that define them. Never Give In tells the story of Sir Alex Ferguson, the Legendary manager of Manchester United and one of the most memorable figures in European football. And building on our strength in soccer, were producing an original series of documentaries called Stories From the Beautiful Game from Pete Radovich, the award-winning producer of our UEFA Champions League coverage. Well release 4 to 5 soccer documentaries every year, beginning later this year, will also produce exclusive documentaries in the immediate aftermath of momentous events. Like the siege on the Capitol last month. These instant documentaries or instadocs will be released within days of breaking news and will dive deeper into events that have gripped the nations attention. Now our documentary slate for ParamountPlus will include projects from some of the worlds best filmmakers. First up will be Black Gold from Oscar Nominated Director, Darren Aronofsky and TIME Studios. Its a true-to-life conspiracy thriller about Big Oils decades-long campaign to trade our planet for profit. From Smithsonian, we have a series on Watergate that illuminates a moment in our history that parallels so much of whats happening right now. And from MTV Documentary Films, we have the Oscar-shortlisted 76 Days, an extraordinary inside look at Wuhan, China in the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic. Take a look. (presentation) George Cheeks - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of CBS Entertainment Group I honestly cant think of a story more gripping, more powerful and more relevant to this moment. And this is just one of the many documentaries you will find on ParamountPlus. Now as you can see, we are bringing the full weight of our talent, our resources and our expertise to this new service, Live Sports, exclusive championship events, the richest in-depth storytelling, investigative reporting and high-profile interviews, 24/7 live news and compelling documentaries. Together, these offerings will put ParamountPlus in a league all its own. No other streaming service will offer sports and news coverage of this quality and at this scale. But as Bob said, these are just 2 pieces of the puzzle. So to tell you about our mountain of entertainment, please welcome Chairman and CEO of Paramount Pictures, Jim Gianopulos. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call James N. Gianopulos - Paramount Pictures Corporation - Chairman & CEO Thank you, George. Now movies have always been very special to me. Growing up in Brooklyn, my grandfather was a Greek immigrant, took me to the movies all the time. It was his way of spending time with me and learning English in the process. I would translate what was happening on the screen as a sort of uncredited voiceover, which created some irritated shushes from fellow patrons. He wasnt very particular about the movies we saw, choosing them more from the geography of the theater than what was playing. We saw thrillers and westerns and romances, you name it. He inadvertently took me to see Psycho. I was 8. Before many of the movies we saw, the lights would go down, that iconic mountain would come up, that crown of stars would trail in from off screen and a great Paramount presentation would begin. For over a century, Paramount has thrilled generations of audiences. Its one of the worlds most recognized brands, known for great stories told well and unforgettable experiences that stand the test of time. And thats why were so pleased that the Paramount name will be the one that carries a great new streaming service forward into a new era. If you love movies as much as I do, ParamountPlus is the service you cant do without. It starts with access to one of the greatest film libraries in the world, generation-defining films like The Godfather and Indiana Jones and Forrest Gump and Top Gun, dramas like Chinatown and Titanic and comedies like The Odd Couple and Beverly Hills Cop and Wolf of Wall Street and romances like Sabrina and Ghost, sci-fi films like War of the Worlds and World War Z. And that great library is now augmented with the addition of over 700 titles from the Miramax library as well. Heres a look at our library and some of whats coming to ParamountPlus. (presentation) James N. Gianopulos - Paramount Pictures Corporation - Chairman & CEO As Bob mentioned, thats not all that will be on our service for film lovers. Thanks to the EPIX deal we announced, well be making available thousands of movie titles from a wide variety of studios to ParamountPlus subscribers. Beginning in late spring, ParamountPlus will have available for streaming some of the most popular films and franchises of our time, including films from the James Bond and Hunger Games franchises to films like The Addams Family and The Avengers, among many others. In addition, Paramounts recent titles will be unified and available as well from Dora the Explorer to Sonic The Hedgehog to Bumblebee and Rocketman, all coming to ParamountPlus. All told, well have more than 2,500 movies on ParamountPlus, and thats just the ones that already exist. We have an exciting robust slate of some of the most anticipated films and beloved franchises planned for 2021 and the years to come. As we always have, we believe in the power of theatrical releases. And we have faith that after things get back to normal, audiences will enthusiastically return to theaters. At the same time, consumers have also increasingly embraced streaming as another way to enjoy films, and our strategy accounts for both. Im pleased to say some of our biggest releases this year will go exclusively from movie theaters to ParamountPlus. That starts with the sequel to one of the most original and memorable films of the past few years. In John Krasinskis expert hands, A Quiet Place showed us that if they hear you, they hunt you. The film captivated audiences and earned huge box offers receipts, all with a very compelling premise. How do you protect your children from the world around you? In A Quiet Place Part II, the Abbott Family has been forced into the outside world and must fight for survival in silence. Its my privilege to show you the trailer for A Quiet Place Part II scheduled for release this September and coming to ParamountPlus just 45 days after its theatrical release. (presentation) 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call James N. Gianopulos - Paramount Pictures Corporation - Chairman & CEO Another one of our titles to make an exclusive streaming debut in year 1 on ParamountPlus after its theatrical release is the first film from one of the most beloved childrens television series around the world. PAW Patrol: The Movie comes to ParamountPlus exclusively this fall. Lastly, there are franchises and then there are franchises, the kind that inspire moments like a seemingly mild mattered CEO jumping out of a plane at 35,000 feet. While it was Bob Bakish inside the helm at this time, this November, Tom Cruise returns as Ethan Hunt in the next installment of one of the most beloved action spy series of all time, Mission Impossible. Mission Impossible 7 is scheduled for theatrical release on November 19 and will come to ParamountPlus exclusively 45 days later. The rest of our 2021 film lineup, including Snake Eyes and Clifford the Big Red Dog and Top Gun Maverick will all be coming to ParamountPlus in 2022 after their respective theatrical runs. Future releases like Sonic the Hedgehog, the newest Transformers, Dungeons and Dragons, The Saint and many others will also be coming to ParamountPlus after their theatrical runs. New MGM films such as Respect and Creed III and Gucci will also be coming to ParamountPlus after their theatrical runs. But thats not all. Theres much more in store and content coming directly to ParamountPlus. As Brian Robbins will discuss in a moment, we will also release SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run exclusively on ParamountPlus. In the streaming era, many have come to us as content creators with access to talent and storytellers and ideas and intellectual property to make original programming for them. Together with our sister studios at ViacomCBS, Paramount will now be ramping up our in-house engine for original hit series and movies made exclusive for ParamountPlus. Many of these films will stem from our franchises. Our originals will cover a wide range of genres, and the first offerings will focus on one of the most popular horror and the supernatural. Were commencing production on new film versions of Paranormal Activity and Pet Sematary as well as an original supernatural story, the In Between, featuring Joey King, the star of the smash hit, The Kissing Booth. As I learned long ago, seeing that mountain on screen signified that we were going to love what we were about to watch. And that no matter who you are or where you come from, the mountain has always had something for you. That has been true of Paramount over the years, and its true of ParamountPlus as well. In addition to film, our Paramount television studios has had huge success with shows for a wide variety of platforms. And well now be bringing that talent to producing original series for ParamountPlus, accessing the rich trove of our assets and our franchises. To say more about our forthcoming series, please welcome the President of Paramount Television Studios, Nicole Clemens. Nicole Clemens - Paramount Pictures Corporation - President of Paramount Television Thank you, Jim. I know we both feel tremendous reverence for Paramounts legacy and library and see great opportunity to take that legacy into the future. For me, that starts with The Godfather. In our forthcoming event limited series, The Offer screenwriter, Michael Tolkin, brings us the true story of the making of one of the most celebrated movies in cinematic history. The story of how this film ultimately made its way from page to screen is nothing short of a miracle, one wrapped in intrigue, betrayal, sacrifice, menace and audacity. When it premieres on ParamountPlus, The Offer will journey with producer, Al Ruddy, on his quest to bring The Godfather to the screen. Al Ruddy wanted to make a movie about terrifying ice-cold people who you love. He did and lived to tell about it. (presentation) 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Nicole Clemens - Paramount Pictures Corporation - President of Paramount Television Intelligent and immersive scripted dramas like The Offer drive viewership and engagement. We know because nearly every major streaming service includes one of Paramount Television Studios biggest hits from Jack Ryan and Defending Jacob to the Haunting of Bly Manor, Catch-22 and 13 Reasons Why. And now we have the unique opportunity to harness Paramounts incredible library to create shows that come with a built-in fan base for ParamountPlus. While we have no shortage of source material, were being very selective and strategic in choosing what IP is best positioned for modern streaming consumers, and there will be something for everyone. Grease: Rise of the Pink Ladies will come to ParamountPlus from executive producer, Annabel Oakes, and the producers of La La Land and Twilight. With both classic and new songs and a diverse cast, this series is a prequel to the unforgettable musical film Grease, and tells the story of how Frenchys older sister Jane founded The Pink Ladies. Award-winning Mad Men writer, Tracy McMillan, is writing a new Flashdance drama series. It will pick up from where the story left off but in present day. True Bloods Angela Robinson will direct and executive produce the series with Lynda Obst. Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage, the executive producers of Gossip Girl, the OC and Looking for Alaska, are bringing to ParamountPlus a series based on the award-winning perennial film Love Story. Fans of The Italian Job and the Parallax View can also look forward to series based on these iconic films. Since the 1960s, Star Trek has been one of Paramount and CBS most revered franchises. More recently, the 3 Star Trek series launched on CBS All Access have broken records. And now the Star Trek journey will continue on ParamountPlus, boldly going where no man has gone before with more universes, more storylines and more mind-blowing visual effects. Soon, viewers will be able to enjoy new realms of this final frontier and binge the classic shows and films as well, truly the best of all worlds. On the television side, producer Alex Kurtzman has brilliantly crafted Star Treks New Voyages with a clear vision for what comes next. Take a look as he explores the ever-expanding Star Trek universe. (presentation) Nicole Clemens - Paramount Pictures Corporation - President of Paramount Television Thank you, Alex. In addition to the new shows were building from our franchise IP, were excited to leverage our relationships with the most talented creators in the industry to develop new originals and a steady stream of innovative programming for ParamountPlus. Now to tell us more about the slate of incredible shows coming to the service, please welcome EVP of Development and Programming, Julie McNamara. Julie McNamara Thanks, Nicole. Our franchise strategy is core to our vision for ParamountPlus originals. With brilliant creators, top talent and the right execution for the moment, weve created hits like the Star Trek franchise entries Alex just talked about, The Twilight Zone and The Good Fight, all modern reimaginings of beloved TV shows that were groundbreaking in their day and are newly significant now, and this is just the beginning. To expand a franchise, whether from a movie or a TV series, you have to have a visionary at the helm, making sure every show has its own unique flavor and reason for being. These genius creators are hard to come by, and we are partnering with some of the best. Its my pleasure to kick it over to one of the most impressive prolific creators out there today, Oscar and Golden Globe nominee, Taylor Sheridan, creator of Yellowstone, the #1 series on cable, along with some of the creative talent hes working with on some very exciting projects for ParamountPlus. (presentation) 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Julie McNamara With creators like Taylor, an entire universe can emerge from a single great show. And when it comes to crime procedurals, we have a lot of great shows. No one does the crime procedural better than CBS. NCIS, Hawaii Five-0, MacGyver, SEAL TEAM, FBI, all of this library content is on our platform. And of course, so is Criminal Minds. Its a huge hit on broadcast and consistently one of the top 10 shows streaming. On Netflix, it was the third most-viewed series in 2020. And now the only place you can find all 15 seasons will be ParamountPlus. Were also creating a suite of new projects that build on the success of this show and our cultures ever-growing obsession with criminal cases. First, a scripted series, bringing the gang back together, same showrunner, same breaking down of the criminal psyche and catching the bad guy, all the things you love about Criminal Minds. But instead of a new case every week, it will be a single fascinating case story told over 10 episodes each season. And second, a true crime series, THE REAL CRIMINAL MINDS, where a real FBI profiler analyzes real cases and real criminal behavior, illustrated by clips fans will remember from the fictional series. Also building on the crime genre, were doing a follow-up to Waco, Paramount Networkss massive hit miniseries as part of our new anthology entitled American Tragedy. Exclusive to ParamountPlus, each season of American Tragedy will tackle complicated and conspiracy-ridden moments in history. Of course, crime is not the only genre that has pulled in die hard fans. Our hit dramedy, Younger, developed a super strong fan base over the course of its 6 amazing seasons. In fact, it was the #1 original cable sitcom among women 25 to 54 during each of its last 3 years. Fans have been waiting impatiently for the final season, and now theyll be able to find that season on ParamountPlus. So its my pleasure to give you a first look. (presentation) Julie McNamara With each new franchise entry, our goal is to create moments. Not just the splash of a big entrance, but the lasting ripples of a new conversation. So now Im thrilled to announce the revival of one of the most highly acclaimed, most successful comedy series of all time. Frasier is coming back exclusively to ParamountPlus. Its one of the most popular shows in our library, and the new series will have everything you love about the original: coziness, great writing, and, of course, a cast led by multiple Emmy winner Kelsey Grammer. Its nostalgic and contemporary all at once. ParamountPlus will be home not only to franchises based on movies and television series, but also to franchises based on video games. To start, one very, very popular video game. To tell you more, please welcome the CEO of Showtime Networks, David Nevins. David Nevins - ViacomCBS Inc. - Chief Creative Officer Thank you, Julie. Im here to talk about Halo, one of the most important game franchises of all time. The reason Halo has persisted in the culture for 2 decades is because of its incredible narrative and rich universe of stories and characters. With a cast led by Pablo Schreiber as the iconic master chief, the upcoming Halo series will weave intimate personal stories with incredible action and a lavishly imagined vision of the future. Halo has been in production in Hungary. And I can tell you, its visually stunning, totally thrilling, and significantly, it offers true 4-quadrant general audience appeal. Its so promising, in fact, that weve made the strategic decision to have Showtime serve as a studio that produces a series for ParamountPlus. Thats right, Halo will premier on ParamountPlus early in 2022, and we all believe its going to be a defining show for our new super service. We see this as another example of us marshaling the finest resources of the company in service of ParamountPlus. 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Julie McNamara We are all very excited about this new series. David Nevins - ViacomCBS Inc. - Chief Creative Officer Its my privilege for the first time ever, to show you a sneak peak of Halo coming to Paramount plus early in 2022. (presentation) Julie McNamara Theres no question ParamountPlus will be home to some of the greatest franchises on TV, but every franchise begins with a single game-changing series. So you better believe well be taking big swings and teaming up with top creative talent to create the next big thing. Id like to share just a few of the notable new projects we have planned. First, Im thrilled to announce that we have found our Man Who Fell to Earth in Oscar nominee and BAFTA winner, Chiwetel Ejiofor. Based on the iconic science fiction novel and film, The Man Who Fell to Earth tells the story of an alien who arrives on this planet and reveals more about human nature than humans ever could. Next up, Guilty Party, a dark comedy starring Kate Beckinsale as a journalist who gets in over her head when she tries to salvage her career by investigating the story of a young woman in jail for murdering her husband. Then theres The Game, a sitcom that broke records when it premiered on BET, which is returning to the field with a mix of original cast and new players and will offer a modern-day examination of black culture through the prism of pro football. At a time when we all could use more laughter in our lives, shows like Frasier, Guilty Party and The Game are embracing comedy in a big way. To tell us more about comedy on ParamountPlus and some of the other genres that will define our new service, I want to introduce President of MTV Entertainment Group, Chris McCarthy. Chris McCarthy - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Entertainment & Youth Brands of ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks Thanks, Julie. Now we just heard some great new comedy projects that are coming to ParamountPlus, and Im excited to share some new ones. But first, let me tell you why how comedy matters to streaming. Now when we look at total minutes consumed across the leading streaming services, comedy is the genre that rises to the top of the list. So what does that mean? Well, it means that comedy helps to capture new subscribers and it helps to keep existing ones. You see, viewers enjoy binging episode after episode of friendly faces and familiar characters. In many ways, comedy is our comfort food. And when it comes to beloved characters from iconic franchises, ParamountPlus delivers. With over 6,000 episodes, its clear that comedy is central to ParamountPlus. Now weve got it all. Everything from I Love Lucy to Everybody Hates Chris, from Hot in Cleveland to The Neighborhood and from Strangers with Candy to and the famous Friends and Cheers. ParamountPlus also brings us some of the funniest families in television, including Family Ties, the Brady Bunch, Young Sheldon, Moesha, Mom and, of course, Frasier. Now ParamountPlus will also be the home to iconic sketch shows from the man who reinvented the genre in Chappelles Show to the guys who took it to new heights with Key & Peele, and of course, the women who made it their own, Sarah Silverman and Amy Schumer. In fact, Amy is back for a very special new season of Inside Amy Schumer. 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And if topical comedy is your thing, well, ParamountPlus has you covered with the raining chance of late night. Im talking about Stephen Colbert, James Corden and, of course, Comedy Centrals Trevor Noah. Plus exclusive new originals that offer a fresh take on the days events. Like Stephen Colberts Tooning Out The News, and something very special from my friend, Trevor Noah, who is here to tell us more about that now. Trevor Noah Well, thank you so much for that, Chris. And Im not going to lie, guys. ParamountPlus sounds incredible, but not nearly as incredible as Trevor+. Thats right, people. A new streaming platform thats going to blow ParamountPlus out of the water. I mean, sure ParamountPlus has breaking news, but Trevor+ has news that you wont hear anywhere else because Ill be making it up. For instance, did you hear that they found chocolate inside Mount Everest? Of course, you didnt. Its a Trevor+ exclusive. And yes, ParamountPlus offers classic new and original shows, I mean, and movies, including the best in reality, comedy, music, animation and late night, yes, true mountain of entertainment. But Trevor+ doesnt have any kind of mountain. What we do have is a plus sign. And my plus sign could mean anything. Maybe theres more than one Trevor. Maybe Ill be doing arithmetic all day. The possibilities are endless. And yes, I know that ParamountPlus has live sports, but Im proud to announce that at Trevor+, we couldnt get the rights to any live sports. So instead, Im just going to be showing off my karate skills. All right, people, lets be honest. Ill never be able to compete with ParamountPlus, which is why Ive made the unfortunate decision to announce that after magical 0 days in business, Trevor+ is shutting down. But as the old saying goes, if you cant beat them, well, why not host a show for them on ParamountPlus? Thats right, a new weekly show hosted by me, Trevor Black Belt Noah is coming to ParamountPlus later this year. Each week, Ill look at the stories across the media landscape and talk with the people behind those stories, the people you know, the people you dont know and the people you didnt even know that you didnt know. Its kind of exciting, right? My favorite part is that, wait, if Im doing the daily show, and Im going to be doing a weekly show, what am I still doing? Ive got to get to work. Chris, back to you. Chris McCarthy - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Entertainment & Youth Brands of ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks Thanks, Trevor. Now were also excited to share that well be doing exclusive original comedy movies that will reignite franchises for new and old fans alike. Like a new special from the guys of Workaholics, who are working hard through the pandemic and the gang from Reno 911!, who returned to take us on the elusive search for QAnon, certainly not one to be missed. And we even have 2 of Americas most famous couch potatoes, who went in on the action, and theyre here joining us today via Zoom. (presentation) Chris McCarthy - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Entertainment & Youth Brands of ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks Always great to have absurdity back where it belongs, in animation. Okay. So its clear that we know comedy. But theres another category that we know really well as well, and thats music. Because for almost 40 years, MTV has chronicled the world of music through the eyes of the most important artists telling their stories and only in a way that we can because we were there. And now were bringing back some of our most iconic franchises and opening up our vault exclusively for ParamountPlus with new seasons of Behind the Music, Unplugged and the legendary Yo! MTV Raps!, plus new original music series like Cradle to the Stage with Dave Grohl and Foo Fighters. 17 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Now switching gears, I want to talk about another area that we know really well, and thats because we created it. Its reality television. Now reality television is one of the hottest genres today. Its long reined in the top 10 across broadcast and cable, and thats around the globe. But its also the fastest-growing genre in streaming. Look at Netflix alone, and we see that reality made up half of the top 10 new series. Now thats a category that barely cracked the top 10 just a few years ago. So lets take a look at where it all started right here back in 1992. (presentation) Chris McCarthy - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Entertainment & Youth Brands of ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks Thats right. Youve guessed it. Were kicking off ParamountPlus with the first reality series in the first reality house with the first reality cast of all time, back together for the first time in over 3 decades. Now weve come a long way since The Real World. And as youve heard from Bob, we dominate the reality category today with over 5,000 episodes of some of the biggest hits. But what you might not know is how important reality is to sports fans. So guess what sports fans are watching when theyre not watching the biggest game? Thats right, its reality TV. And as you heard from George, sports is a key differentiator for us. And so reality will help drive new subs, and it will help us to retain the existing subs that sports helps to bring in. So we have all the biggest hits to help us do that from Love and Hip-Hop to Love Island, from Drag Race to The Amazing Race, from Survivor to The Challenge and, of course, from Big Brother to the big bros in Jersey Shore. And Im excited to share with you today a great new slate of ParamountPlus originals using some of our biggest franchise IP, including The Challenge: All Stars; RuPauls Drag Race All Stars; and a new series, Queen of the Universe, which is this global search for the worlds best new drag queen. And of course, theres Big Brothers 24-hour live feed and the red-hot Love Island after show. Plus, in addition to The Real World, were bringing back some of the most beloved reality franchises exclusively for ParamountPlus, including Road Rules, Ink Master and Dating Naked. So lets take a look at why ParamountPlus will rule reality. (presentation) Chris McCarthy - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Entertainment & Youth Brands of ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks Its all great stuff, and its all right here on ParamountPlus. And now Id like to turn it over to my colleague and friend, Brian Robbins, the President of Kids and Family Entertainment, to tell us about the amazing content he and his team have in store for us on ParamountPlus. (presentation) Brian Robbins - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Kids & Family Entertainment for ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks That video was just a quick roll call of some of Nickelodeons greatest characters and global franchises, the engines that have kept this brand in first place with kids and families for 25 years straight, shows like SpongeBob SquarePants, which is hands down the most watched kids franchise there is; PAW Patrol, the biggest preschool property on the planet with an unparalleled 97% awareness rate; Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles; Henry Danger; Dora; Blues Clues and many more. These are franchises that audiences connect to and follow on every platform that we take them to. From linear, where were #1 with all the top 10 shows in every demo. To digital, like YouTube, where our channels like Nick JR are top 10 globally. To music, gaming, consumer products and experiences like our coverage of the NFL wild card game, which can entertain the whole family and capture the attention of the whole world. 18 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And when you put it all together, the Nick brand is approaching absolute ubiquity with kids 2 to 11, along with the millions of nostalgic adults who grew up with our shows and now want to share them with their own kids. So we know the audience is ready to follow us again as we move to ParamountPlus. Kids are early adopters, and theyve led the way with streaming. Households with children subscribe to almost 40% more streaming services than those without. And once these families subscribe, they stay subscribed. So by using the power of our franchises, our deep connection with the audience and our significant reach, were going to make ParamountPlus a must-have streaming service for kids and their families. Now on one hand, we have our content library, 7,000 episodes of hit shows in every genre kids love, including a powerhouse roster of curriculum-driven preschool hits like PAW Patrol, Blaze, Dora and Diego, Blues Clues and many more. And with our content translated into more than 25 languages, were already set to fuel the services international expansion. And now on the other hand, were stocking ParamountPlus with a growing slate of original productions, strategically built around our biggest and best franchises. Now we surveyed which are the most celebrated, the most requested and which hold the most creative possibilities. And that has led us to produce a string of reimagined series, starting with Avatar: The Last Airbender. Its considered one of the greatest animated series of the last 30 years, a heros journey through a universe of myth and fantasy with a dedicated fan base that has supersized since the shows original run on Nick ended in 2008. Now to satisfy the demand for more chapters of this franchise, were now establishing Avatar Studios, which will be led by the original creators with the goal to further develop this fantastic universe. Together, well produce all-new series, short-form content, spin-offs and theatrical films. Its an all-out expansion of everything Avatar with ParamountPlus at the core. And then theres SpongeBob, which, in many ways, is the centerpiece example of our strategy, pairing beloved library with brand-new takes on beloved characters. SpongeBob is simply a property that wins on every platform: #1 on TV, in games and products and ubiquitous on social media, where its mentioned or made into a meme every 5 seconds. And yes, that is a real stat. ParamountPlus is already home to the complete SpongeBob library. And next month, we up the ante with dual editions of the Sponge on the Run feature film and the brand-new series, Kamp Koral, where viewers will see SpongeBob in gorgeous CG animation and learn how he and his friends first met. Heres a clip. (presentation) Brian Robbins - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Kids & Family Entertainment for ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks Also teed up for the second quarter this year is in all-new Rugrats, the original Nick franchise that still holds a special place in almost every millennials childhood memories. The babies we all know and love are back with a new animation style and the original voice cast on board. And heres the very first sneak peek. (presentation) Brian Robbins - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Kids & Family Entertainment for ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks Next on deck for the fall is the most successful kid sitcom of all time, iCarly, a show that defined its time, predicted the future of young Internet creators and entrepreneurs and gave us spaghetti tacos. The new show has the same humor and focus on friendship, but now the characters are 10 years older and with much better tech. Heres a message from the cast. (presentation) 19 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Brian Robbins - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Kids & Family Entertainment for ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks Thanks, guys. Now coming in the near future, we also have a live-action Dora the Explorer series in the vein of the hit 2019 Paramount feature and a live-action retelling of The Fairly OddParents, one of the longest-running and most successful animated hits on Nickelodeon. But well finish out this year by literally taking the audience to the final frontier, as you heard Alex Kurtzman mentioned earlier, with Star Trek: Prodigy. The team producing this impressive show is A class: Alex Kurtzman, Heather Kadin, along with the Hageman brothers, Ben Hibon and Nickelodeon are the first to make a Star Trek story for the kids and family audience. It combines Nickelodeons fresh sensibility with the action and adventure that are the hallmarks of this incredible franchise, with characters who are kids in an extraordinary situation who have to work together to commandeer a starship and explore a universe like no other youve ever seen before. So all of this strategy, Prodigy, Rugrats, SpongeBob, iCarly, Dora, Fairly OddParents, Avatar and a vast library 4 decades in the making, this is just a taste of the full pipeline for our new home base on ParamountPlus, and all of this is just the start. There is so much more to come. So thank you. And now heres Scott Mills, President of BET, to share his plans. Scott Morgan Mills - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of BET Networks Black audiences have long been a key driver of the TV viewer ecosystem. They make up an outsized share of the viewing audience for virtually every major network. For the Black community, television is the go-to source for news, public affairs and entertainment. Contrary to prediction, the revolution is very much being televised. In other words, Black viewers are TVs super consumers. And when they tune in, theyre looking for the very best of general entertainment and culturally relevant programs that speak to the Black experience. BET was founded on this insight, and we have flourished for 40 years by super serving our community with Black stories that entertain and move us all. Now were very excited to bring a robust array of traditional scripted and unscripted BET originals and library favorites to ParamountPlus, including our top library series like Being Mary Jane, Real Husbands of Hollywood and The Bobby Brown Story. But thats not all. Were bringing exciting new original series to the platform as well. I brought a friend along to give you a sneak peek of an upcoming project hes making exclusively for ParamountPlus. Kenya Barris Thanks, Scott. I have to say, I did not realize what a beautiful man you are. But maybe everyone else said it. Anyway, my name is Kenya Barris, and Im a writer and producer, a storyteller. And for me, when it comes to content, the thing that interests me most is telling stories from new perspectives and from fresh voices, stories that expand how we are seeing ourselves on screen, who we see ourselves as on screen and, most importantly, who is telling those stories behind the screen. I could not be more thrilled to be joining the ViacomCBS family, and I cant wait to share more about what weve got going on the works. But today, however, today, Im here to make all my new partners feel good by telling you exactly how excited I am about ParamountPlus. Thats why I think this is the perfect place to kick things off. The first series Ill be involved with will take an intimate look at contemporary relationships. Well explore sort of the complicated, ever-changing boundaries and sometime racy dynamics that have shaped and redefine what modern love is. Its custom-made for ParamountPlus, and I cant wait for you and the rest of the world to see it. Now back to the beautiful Scott Mills. Scott Morgan Mills - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of BET Networks Thanks so much, Kenya. As Bob said earlier, ViacomCBS is the only media company to fully embrace an ecosystem of free, pay and premium streaming services with strong products in each. Each of these services has a dedicated audience, and combining them allows us to serve a broad array of consumer needs. 20 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Youve heard all about the incredible content coming to ParamountPlus. Now I want to talk about our premium offerings, starting with BET Plus. We launched BET Plus, BETs first ever stand-alone streaming service 18 months ago. The enormous success weve seen already proves that Black Americans are also streaming super consumers. BET Plus has rapidly grown to nearly 1.5 million paid subscribers by delivering a unique and powerful combination of provocative and edgy originals from top Black creators, fan favorite movies, beloved sitcoms and exclusive stage plays, amounting to over 2,000 hours of popular, culturally relevant content. BET Plus has great original series from star showrunners like Tracy Oliver, whose next season of the popular First Wives Club, starring Jill Scott, hits the service in June; and the prolific Will Packer, whose comedy series, Bigger, comes to BET Plus in April, with Tori Spelling adding a little drama. Theres the brilliant Emmy award-winning Lena Waithe, whos executive producing the scripted dramedy, Birth of Cool, which will debut later this year. And last but certainly not least, weve got the one and only, Mr. Tyler Perry, creator of the top 3 original series for Black consumers right now. His popular streaming series, Ruthless, is coming back to the service in April, and a stage play recently broke every viewing record on the service. Not only does BET Plus have Tylers catalog, one of the most valuable libraries of content in entertainment today, we have the man himself here to share more of what well be bringing next to BET Plus. Tyler, take it away. Tyler Perry Thanks, Scott. Im really thrilled with BET Plus incredible growth, nearly 1.5 million subscribers. Weve clearly established BET Plus as the essential Black streaming service, the service that Black consumers buy to supplement general entertainment streaming services. Listen, I began my career in this direct-to-consumer business, so I know it well. I will go out on stage every night all over the country. And as a result, I have been confident about the demand for our service since its inception because I know how much my audience, how much Black consumers overall value and seek our great content anchored in our culture and in our experiences. BET Plus is home to an extraordinary array of my content, including my movies, dramas, sitcoms and my stage plays. Im most excited about the new original series Im creating for BET Plus, including the second season of my breakout here, this thing is huge on BET Plus, my drama there, Ruthless; my comedy, Bruh. And Tyler Perry Studios itself is working on a brand-new show called All the Queens Men. And I cant wait to create even more, bring more great content for the BET Plus viewers as we continue our growth right through the roof. Scott Morgan Mills - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of BET Networks Thank you, Tyler. BET Plus premium content offering and powerful brand are already prominent beacons in the streaming marketplace. As such, they are the perfect complement to ParamountPlus and Showtime. Pairing BET Plus with ParamountPlus and Showtime gives us a unique opportunity to tailor packages to Black super consumers. With BETs unbeatable array of targeted marketing platforms, partners and insights, were able to aggressively market these packages to our audiences to drive acquisition across all 3. Were going to super serve our viewers with the perfect combination, the very best general entertainment and culturally relevant content that can only be found in our ecosystem. Next up, its my pleasure to now bring out David Nevins, Chief Creative Officer of CBS and Chairman and CEO of Showtime Networks. (presentation) David Nevins - ViacomCBS Inc. - Chief Creative Officer A drunk, roguish patriarch; a lesbian gallery owner turned candidate for L.A. mayor; a brash sado-masochistic attorney; and a shrewd, relentlessly calculating hedge fund king, iconic characters shape our culture. They captivate. They fascinate. They elevate. They take risks. They make you say, I cant believe they just did that. Theyre not only thrilling to watch, they move us, and they change the way we think about each other and the world. They define our most interesting conversations. So when we talk about culture, really, were talking about characters with unique voices, and Showtime is their home. 21 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call For 30 years, Showtime has been at the forefront of storytelling. Our stories, our characters and our content push the culture forward. Our viewers are the cultural omnivores who want to be a part of the conversation, the adventure seekers who arent afraid to be challenged. Theyre our consumers who want a provocative experience that theyve heard about and they wont be able to find anywhere else. This unique segment is why we at ViacomCBS believe in the broader strategy of carving out lanes. Some viewers will want the free content on Pluto. Some will want the broad offerings on ParamountPlus, and some would want the premium entertainment offerings on Showtime. People are used to paying for premium Showtime content, and we are proving our value to consumers every day. Thats why Showtime has grown streaming subscribers so dramatically in the past few years. The fact is that brands matter, and Showtime stands out as the only pure-play premium service for sophisticated, surprising, culture-moving content. Weve got entertaining compelling docuseries like The Circus, VICE and COUPLES THERAPY; decade-defining shows like Billions, Shameless and The Chi; and the premier combat sports lineup in America with premium boxing and MMA events throughout the year. So let me tell you about a few of the upcoming projects that were so excited about. From the incredible director, Susanne Bier, who created The Night Manager and The Undoing, comes The First Lady, featuring actors as powerful as the women they portray, with Viola Davis playing Michelle Obama; Michelle Pfeiffer as Betty Ford; and Gillian Anderson is Eleanor Roosevelt. Think of it as The Crown for America. Moving from the East Wing to the hills of Western Pennsylvania, our new series, American Rust, starting Jeff Daniels and Maura Tierny, explores the elusive American dream through a compromised Chief of Police. Its a compelling murder mystery thats going to grip audiences and strike right at the heart of some of todays most important conversations. And then theres YELLOWJACKETS. Its the story of a girls high school soccer team whose plane goes down in the Canadian wilderness. Equal parts survival epic, psychological horror story and coming of middle age melodrama, YELLOWJACKETS stars Christina Ricci, Juliette Lewis and Melanie Lynskey as the grown-up women who must come to grips with what they had to do to survive. Take a look. (presentation) David Nevins - ViacomCBS Inc. - Chief Creative Officer Oscar winner Steven Zaillian is writing and directing RIPLEY, a thrilling multi-season TV series based on the great novels by Patricia Highsmith that also inspired the hit movie. Ripley will be played by Andrew Scott, best known as the hot priest from Fleabag. Its a premium psychological drama shot in some of the most iconic locations around the world. Also, who said iconic characters had to be made up? Showtime has built a reputation for incredible documentaries. Heres a preview of our upcoming slate. (presentation) David Nevins - ViacomCBS Inc. - Chief Creative Officer In comedy, we couldnt be more excited about THE CURSE. This is the ultimate collaboration between the Oscar winner Emma Stone, satiric genius Nathan Fielder and boundary-pushing filmmakers the Safdie brothers of Uncut Gems fame. Starring Emma and Nathan and set against the backdrop of a cable home flipping show, THE CURSE keenly satirizes the performative aspects of white liberalism run amok. Next, were bringing back an old favorite in a big way. The famous fixer, Ray Donovan, will return to Showtime, this time in a feature length movie. Were thrilled that Liev Schreiber is back to wrap up the show while setting us up for a potential movie franchise. And speaking of favorites coming back in a big way. The pandemic of 2020 meant the last season of Billions got cut short, but last years loss is this years gain. Were coming back with 18 power-packed episodes of this culture-defining show. Take a look. (presentation) 22 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call David Nevins - ViacomCBS Inc. - Chief Creative Officer Yes. One more thing. We do have one more treat for Showtime subscribers, but Ill let him speak for himself. (presentation) David Nevins - ViacomCBS Inc. - Chief Creative Officer Slate of original programming and with even more coming beyond what we were able to preview today, Showtime will be offering the premium content thats going to define 2021. And its all going to pair perfectly with ParamountPlus and Pluto. To say more about Pluto and our commitment to free, ad-supported TV, Id like to welcome back Tom Ryan. (presentation) Thomas Ryan - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of Streaming As youve just seen, were set up for big success in paid and premium streaming. But were also on course to dominate the free streaming world, a hugely exciting opportunity in itself and one that allows all of our products to work together in a unified streaming strategy thats greater than the sum of its parts. When my co-founders and I launched Pluto TV nearly 7 years ago, we led with linear, interest-based channels at a time when everybody was moving to on-demand. We wanted Pluto to be totally free in the age of paid subscription and supported by ads when everybody said consumers wouldnt watch ads anymore. And its clear that those contrarian instincts are paying off. Pluto TV hasnt just proven our skeptics wrong. We pioneered a new category, and now were one of the leading free streaming television services with over 43 million global monthly active users. Were available anywhere you stream: on mobile, desktop and connected TV. And Pluto TV is not only distributed as an app. Through innovative partnerships with Samsung, LG, Amazon, Verizon, TiVo and Vizio, weve already integrated Pluto directly into over 100 million devices. And were on pace to extend this integrated partnership portfolio to 200 million devices globally this year. This gives us, by far, the largest distribution footprint in our category. We meet viewers and advertisers where they want to be, in the streaming living room, on connected TVs. And our ad partners love Pluto because we offer the best of both worlds, the efficient targeting of digital with the brand-building and storytelling of traditional TV. And were not just growing domestically. From day 1, Plutos mission has been to entertain the planet. And we are well on our way, scaling rapidly in 25 countries across Europe and Latin America. Well have more to say about our international strategy a bit later. At a time when choosing what to watch too often feels like work, when youre paralyzed by the paradox of choice, Pluto makes enjoying great entertainment easy, fun and intuitive. With more than 150,000 hours of high-quality programming from 400 global content partners spanning news, sports, entertainment, lifestyle and more, all hand-curated into hundreds of channels, plus thousands of shows and movies on-demand, Pluto TV really does have something for everyone. TV lovers can watch hits like The Walking Dead, Narcos and RuPauls Drag Race; or classics like Threes Company, Happy Days and The Love Boat. Sports fans can watch channels from the NFL, Major League Soccer, the PGA TOUR and launching soon, Major League Baseball. News junkies can stay up to speed on CBSN, CNN, Bloomberg and NBC News NOW. And Spanish language viewers will find a wide selection of programming that understands and serves the U.S. Hispanic community in all its diversity across cultures and generations. In May, well relaunch our USH category with nearly double the offerings of our closest competitor in this space, carried it into a dozen rebranded channels and 14 new ones for a total of over 40 channels in Español, including kids and music. 23 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Our secret weapon is our team of human curators, each programming what theyre passionate about, like the ex MMA fighter who programs all of our fight channels or the stand-up comedian who programs our comedy channels or the movie buff who selects films for our cinema classics channel. Pluto TV really is a whole world of entertainment, and it just keeps getting better with more great content on the way. (presentation) Thomas Ryan - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of Streaming Now Plutos category leadership in free streaming TV is hugely exciting in itself. But its even more exciting when you see how it helps us create something we call the super funnel. I know that sounds like something from a Nickelodeon game show. But actually, its an incredibly powerful way to expand our paid streaming audience. Because of ViacomCBS enormous reach, we can ensure that were there for you in every place you experience content. Were there for you on linear TV, where we have the #1 broadcast and cable networks across all demographics in the U.S. Were there for you on social media, where we are ranked #1 in total video views among major media companies. And of course, were there for you on free streaming, where Pluto is the #1 free ad-supported television service in the country. Through all of these touch points, we expand the funnels base. And once we have peoples attention, we keep demonstrating the value of our subscription services. How? The key here can be found in a line you heard earlier from the Paramount classic, The Godfather. We keep making them offers they cant refuse. Take Pluto, which offers particularly valuable opportunities for discovery, sampling and upsell into our paid services. With Plutos free linear experience, we can effortlessly introduce tens of millions of viewers to the amazing content weve highlighted today. Viewers drop in any time and discover a pilot episode of The Stand or past season episodes of NCIS before a new season debut. Once theyre hooked, we offer a trial subscription for more. For example, a few months ago, we launched a channel called Showtime Selects, where viewers can watch select episodes of hit Showtime series for free. After theyve watched, we tell them how to find more great episodes by subscribing to Showtime. Eventually, users will be able to click right out of the Pluto service to immediately begin their Showtime subscription. Already, the channel has been an enormous success. The first episode of Your Honor saw more sampling on Pluto than it did on YouTube. So you can bet were going to be launching a channel like this for ParamountPlus, too, and doing everything that we can to make sure that Pluto viewers are watching it. These channels on Pluto TV are just one example on linear, online and everywhere. Well keep putting out content that appeals to all kinds of people and then funnel these viewers into our subscription services through offers so good, they cant refuse. So the super funnel is one major competitive advantage that ParamountPlus will have over the competition from day 1. And there are 2 other big strengths we expect to supercharge growth. For one, we will launch with near-universal awareness of the Paramount brand. I think its a good sign that I dont have to tell you much about the ParamountPlus marketing campaign because the statistics suggest youve already seen it. Our ad campaign reached new heights when nearly 100 million people tuned into the Super Bowl this year and saw our iconic talent, from Patrick Stewart and Christine Baranski, Dora the Explorer and SpongeBob SquarePants, summit Paramount mountain, their new streaming home. This TV campaign is being accompanied by an incredible social media and digital blitz from the entire ViacomCBS enterprise. All together, our ad campaign is projected to reach an outstanding 95% of Americans age 25 to 54. And two, ParamountPlus will have near-universal distribution. As I mentioned, Plutos powerful distribution strategy provided the foundation for remarkable growth. And we have deep relationships with virtually every major distribution partner across our business, mutually beneficial relationships weve been cultivating for years. The combination of Pluto, Showtime, BET Plus and now ParamountPlus creates a uniquely valuable portfolio for our partners. So again, were talking about near-universal awareness and near-universal distribution. I think we can all agree, thats a great place to start. And to quote a line from a CBS classic, The price is right. Starting this June, ParamountPlus will have 2 pricing tiers: first, a base ad-supported tier that still offers the full spectrum of the ParamountPlus experience. For live sports, subscribers on our base tier will get the NFL, UEFA, National Womens Soccer League and more to come. For breaking news, theyll get CBSN and on-demand videos from CBS News. And for their mountain of entertainment, theyll get the full breadth of ParamountPlus originals, Paramount movies, a massive portion of the ViacomCBS library and current seasons of CBS shows and all for $4.99 a month, an incredible value. 24 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Subscribers on our premium tier will get a commercial-free viewing experience. Their live sports will be supplemented by even more CBS sports. Their news will be enriched by live CBS News feeds, including local feeds from around the country. And their mountain of entertainment will get even taller with the full live CBS TV experience at their fingertips. Its everything we know consumers want in a streaming experience, plus some things that theyll soon discover that they want and all for $9.99. Even better, well be offering consumers the chance to bundle ParamountPlus with our premium offerings for an even better deal on ViacomCBS content. Our goal is to create a frictionless experience with an integrated ecosystem of services available to users. For example, we plan to add an integrated upsell, where subscribers can easily add Showtime content to their ParamountPlus experience. This way, we have distinct products that stand for something and can succeed in their own lane, but its incredibly simple for users to combine them however they see fit. Thats why we call this an ecosystem. In nature, different parts of an ecosystem carve out their own niche, their own particular strategy for success. But each one of an ecosystems elements also works together with the rest, promoting the health of the whole. Thats exactly what we hope to create with our streaming services, and we cant wait to see them thrive. And now let me introduce our President of International Streaming, Kelly Day, to talk us through our global launch. Kelly Day - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Streaming & COO of ViacomCBS Networks International Thanks, Tom. 95% of the worlds population, 7.5 billion people, live outside the U.S. The international opportunity in streaming is massive. Lets start with Pluto. Since ViacomCBS acquired Pluto and began expanding outside the U.S., our monthly active user growth has gone through the roof. In 2020, with growth in the U.K. and Germany as well as new launches in Latin America and Spain, our international monthly active users jumped from 1 million to 13 million. This year, with Plutos expansion in France and Italy, we expect that incredible growth to continue. The SVOD space is still early in international markets. We expect over 350 million new subscriptions to come online in the next 3 years, giving us a lot of room to grow. With ParamountPlus, we have a 4-pronged strategy to meet this global opportunity. First, we start with a truly global brand. An average of 91% of people in key markets we tested know the Paramount brand, and 96% have a positive association with it. Around the globe, the Paramount brand means premium content, blockbuster films and must-see TV. Second, we deliver a powerful mix of global and local content that lives up to that storied reputation. Internationally, ParamountPlus will be the home of Paramount movies with select first-run movies in certain markets as well as some of the worlds biggest scripted dramas from Showtime, CBS Studios and others. This new service will feature many of the exciting ParamountPlus series youve heard about today, including originals such as The Man Who Fell to Earth, Halo and Kamp Koral as well as fan favorites like NCIS. ParamountPlus will also be the international home to many of the fantastic Showtime titles you just heard about, including new adds like The First Lady and American Rust as well as classics such as Dexter and Billions. Youll also see widely acclaimed dramas from third-party studios in select markets, including award-winning shows like The Handmaids Tale and Killing Eve; and local formats of some of MTVs biggest global reality franchises such as Acapulco Shore and Are You The One? Brasil. All of these will be available to international consumers as part of a single subscription. Heres a quick look. (presentation) Kelly Day - ViacomCBS Inc. - President of Streaming & COO of ViacomCBS Networks International Offering this unparalleled collection of global content is key to our strategy. And through ViacomCBS International Studios, were also working closely with top global content creators to ensure we have a robust offering of premium scripted local dramas. These include The Envoys, a supernatural thriller produced with Academy award-winning director and screenwriter, Juan José Campanella; Cecilia, a female-led dramedy from 25 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call renowned Argentine writer and director, Daniel Burman; and Last King of the Cross, an organized crime drama based on the best-selling autobiography by John Ibrahim. Well premier all of these in 2021 with more to come in 2022. The third pillar of our strategy is to provide this premium content experience at a value price point, creating a must-have service. Thats why all of this incredible content from Paramount, Showtime and our global content creators will come at a considerably lower price than competitors in each market. Finally, we are leveraging the massive global reach of ViacomCBS to distribute this service. We have a deep history of relationships with MVPDs and telco partners in every major market around the world. And we are thrilled to announce that our service will have broad distribution across dozens of platforms in Latin America and the Nordics, in addition to our direct-to-consumer distribution. ParamountPlus will also be made available internationally through our global relationships with major platform partners such as Apple, Amazon and Google. With a universally recognized brand, an unparalleled collection of local and global content offerings, a value price point and a massive network of distributors, we are well positioned for rapid growth. So on the same day we launch in the U.S., well launch in all Latin American markets and in Canada. Just a few weeks after that, well launch in the Nordics. And then later this year, well launch in Australia. And this is just the beginning. Well have more markets and more exciting growth opportunities coming soon. And now to hear more about our growth both in streaming and across our enterprise, let me introduce Executive Vice President and CFO, Naveen Chopra. Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Thanks, Kelly. We began 2020 with a clear path forward: Unlock the power of the combined company, build strong operating momentum and accelerate our streaming strategy. And thats exactly what we did. And while we were at it, we improved operational efficiency. We strengthened our position in distribution and advertising. And during todays presentation, Bob, Tom and leaders from across the company have provided a sweeping view of the content powerhouse that will drive our streaming services. Im excited to share a financial perspective on the streaming future of ViacomCBS. But first, Id like to take a few minutes to quantify some of our recent progress by reviewing our Q4 results and sharing a brief look ahead to Q1. Our consistent focus on value creation is evident in our Q4 results, where total company revenue was $6.9 billion, up 3% year-over-year. Adjusted OIBDA was $1.2 billion, up 5% year-over-year. And adjusted diluted EPS was $1.04, up 13% year-over-year. Looking more closely at our revenue performance in the quarter. Advertising revenue grew 4% year-over-year driven by an acceleration in streaming advertising growth and strength in political. Notably, advertising revenue growth in the quarter improved significantly versus the 6% decline we experienced in Q3. Affiliate revenue grew 13% year-on-year in Q4, an acceleration compared to our Q3 growth rate of 10%. The growth in total company affiliate revenue reflects the benefit of distribution renewals that included incremental carriage and improved economics as well as strength in domestic streaming subscription revenue, which grew 74% in the quarter. Of course, today is all about streaming. And there, we finished Q4 on a high note with significant growth in subscribers for CBS All Access and Showtime OTT. In fact, it was a record quarter for both services in terms of new sign-ups. We ended 2020 with 19.2 million domestic streaming subscribers, up 71% year-over-year. In the domestic free ad-supported streaming TV market, Pluto continues to be the leader. We closed Q4 with 30.1 million Pluto TV MAUs domestically and 43.1 million globally. Moreover, based on publicly available information, Pluto TV is not only the leader in MAUs but also leads in total viewing hours and revenue. Continued momentum in subscriber and MAU acquisition translated to strong year-on-year growth in domestic streaming and digital video revenue of 72%, an acceleration from Q3s 56%. That equates to a domestic annual run rate of nearly $3.4 billion and highlights the power of combining ad-supported and subscription models in our streaming businesses. 26 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And lastly, on Q4, I would point out that as expected, production ramping led to negative adjusted free cash flow in the quarter of $342 million. Still, adjusted free cash flow for the year finished at $2.5 billion, and we ended the year with $3 billion of cash and equivalents on our balance sheet. Before sharing thoughts on what to expect in Q1, I want to highlight some changes were making in our financial disclosures. In light of our increasing focus on streaming, we are adding streaming as a specific revenue type in both our consolidated results and our segment reporting. Streaming revenue includes global subscription fees and advertising revenue generated by our streaming services, including ParamountPlus, Showtime OTT, BET Plus and Pluto TV as well as advertising and subscriptions for our other digital video products. And now you can see exactly where and how these revenues contribute to our operating segments. Today, on our website, we published trending schedules with quarterly and annual data for 2019 and 2020 in this new format so you can clearly compare our historical results with future reporting. Were also changing our domestic-only metrics to global metrics for subscribers and Pluto MAUs. For example, now that were reporting global numbers, streaming subscribers as of the end of Q4 are 29.9 million rather than 19.2 million of domestic-only subscribers based on our previous method of reporting. Well be reporting under this new format going forward. We will also be breaking global streaming revenue into its components so you can see exactly how much of our streaming growth comes from advertising and how much is driven by subscription revenue. For example, as you can see for the full year 2020, streaming ad revenue grew 41% to $1.4 billion, while streaming subscription revenue grew 61% to $1.1 billion. I would also note that as a result of this change, our advertising and affiliate revenue types have been recast to remove streaming-related revenue. With those changes in mind, lets talk about Q1. First, on advertising, which now excludes streaming advertising revenue, we expect Q1 advertising growth will materially benefit from Super Bowl LV and the return of the NCAA Mens Basketball Tournament, which, as you know, did not occur in the prior year period. For affiliate revenue, which now excludes streaming subscription revenue, we had a productive year in 2020 with several new distribution deals signed. These renewals will continue to benefit our affiliate growth rates as we enter 2021. Turning to our streaming outlook. We expect continued robust growth in total streaming revenue with the Q1 growth rate in streaming subscription revenue expected to be similar to what we experienced in Q4. And were off to a strong start. Super Bowl Sunday delivered a record-breaking day on CBS All Access in terms of new subscriber sign-ups, streams and time spent. In fact, sign-ups surpassed prior single day records by 138%, and time spent on All Access across platforms surpassed prior single day records by 92%. Beyond Q1, we have even more to look forward to with our expanded streaming ecosystem. And thanks to how far weve already climbed, we think the view is inspiring. We finished 2020 with $2.6 billion in global streaming subscription and streaming advertising revenue and an annual run rate of $3.6 billion. And were not stopping here. Our progress in 2020 exceeded our expectations, but our ambitions reach even further. In fact, our goal is to grow streaming revenue to north of $7 billion by the end of 2024. This represents an approximately 30% compound annual growth rate over that time period. So let me tell you how each of our free, pay and premium components will contribute to this goal, starting with free streaming TV. Here, ViacomCBS doesnt just have a strong foundation. We have the strongest foundation with the category leader in Pluto TV. Whats more, the free ad-supported streaming TV or FAST market is arguably still in its infancy. Its expected to grow to more than $50 billion globally over the next 4 years. We expect to play a major role in accelerating this trend with continued MAU growth, international expansion and improvements in monetization. By the end of 2024, we expect Pluto TV to have between 100 million and 120 million monthly active users around the globe. We know a large portion of them will be connected TV users because today, these viewers are the dominant source of viewing hours on Pluto TV. In fact, in 2020, connected TV users represented 86% of total Pluto viewing hours. These are the Pluto TV users who have been rewarding us with longer sessions, more total watch time and stronger program completion metrics, all things that fuel Plutos advertising revenue growth. And as a result of more people spending more time with us, attracting more advertisers, Pluto TV has enjoyed significant ARPU growth, which we intend to improve even further. Both Pluto TV and the base tier of ParamountPlus are components of our broader EyeQ digital advertising platform, which also includes digital video inventory from brand-specific streaming sites like CBSN, BET, MTV, Comedy Central and Nickelodeon. Through EyeQ, advertisers can reach 50 27 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call million full-episode monthly unique viewers in the United States alone. And were proud to be launching ParamountPlus with a select group of brand sponsors, leading global brands like General Motors and Expedia. Each will have an unparalleled access to this audience and a unique opportunity to surround our beloved content from all angles, from video to custom creative to social. So we have a great opportunity before us in streaming advertising, and we have an even greater opportunity to leverage our linked ecosystem to grow streaming subscribers. In the pay and premium space, ViacomCBS has nearly tripled its global subscriber base in the last 2 years and more than doubled streaming subscription revenue. This is just the beginning because were launching ParamountPlus into a new era of broader streaming growth. The number of streaming services the typical U.S. household pays for continues to increase. A few years ago, it was 1 to 2 paid subscriptions. In 2019, it was 2 to 3. Now its 3 to 4 and trending toward 5. Already, half of U.S. households have more than 3. And we believe this number will grow as new services like ParamountPlus come to market with streaming propositions that have not yet been available to consumers. Its one more reason were excited about the combination of live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment. Step back and look at the bigger picture of this massive, growing global market. The number of SVOD subscriptions is expected to climb to more than $1.1 billion by 2025, with revenue topping $100 billion. ViacomCBS has the world-class studios, the massive library, the broad distribution, the beloved brands and local resources and relationships around the globe to capitalize on this opportunity. Weve set a goal of achieving 65 million to 75 million global streaming subscribers by the end of 2024. The vast majority of this subscriber growth will come from ParamountPlus, both domestically and internationally. This year alone, ParamountPlus will debut 36 original series in addition to a library with over 30,000 TV episodes and more than 2,500 movies. Im personally looking forward to many of the great originals coming to ParamountPlus from The Offer to Trevor Noahs weekly show and the Yellowstone spinoffs, to name a few. And were putting all of this and more right at consumers fingertips at the price thats right for them. The premium tier at $9.99 launches on March 4 in the United States, and the ad-supported base tier at $4.99 launches in June. The $4.99 tier of ParamountPlus will have live sports, including NFL games, soccer and more. It has breaking news through CBSN and, of course, a mountain of entertainment with all ParamountPlus originals and the full suite of current and library CBS shows available on-demand within 24 hours post-airing. By removing the live linear feed from our lowest-cost tier, we gain flexibility to bundle and package ParamountPlus for a variety of distribution partners. Were looking forward to sharing more details about our partner distribution strategy when the new tier launches. And as Kelly highlighted, ParamountPlus will be available in several international regions at a very compelling price point relative to competing alternatives in each market. No matter which option consumers choose, over time, we expect the combination of advertising and subscription revenue to generate incremental value every time we attract a new ParamountPlus viewer, even if that viewer has cut the cord and switched entirely to streaming. As we pursue the streaming opportunity, we will invest aggressively in content to support our growth. Across our portfolio of services, we expect streaming content expense to grow to at least $5 billion by 2024. This number includes content created exclusively for our streaming services and an allocation for highly valuable content assets distributed on both streaming and traditional platforms, including linear television and theatrical. It represents an increase of approximately $4 billion to our 2020 streaming content expense realized through a combination of incremental spend and reallocation of linear content spend. And frankly, we may accelerate the pace of reallocation if we exceed our early goals for subscriber and revenue growth. Were thrilled consumers will be able to find all of this must-watch content in one place. With live sports, breaking news and a mount of entertainment, we are bringing customers a streaming service like none other. This is the promise of ParamountPlus and the power of ViacomCBS to deliver continued growth to investors over the long term. Thank you for joining us, but dont leave the lot quite yet. Before the Q&A portion begins, Id like to turn it over to a special guest, the host of The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, Stephen Colbert. Unidentified Participant Thank you, Naveen. Hey, everybody, and thanks for being here for todays ViacomCBS Streaming Event. Ive been invited to talk about the companys future and the exciting things in store for our viewers. 28 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call As you all might have noticed, 2020 was a bit of a challenge, but the silver lining is that right now people are watching more television than ever. In fact, Im watching Blue Bloods while I tape this. Tom Selleck, dont let Donnie Wahlberg walk down that dark alley. Hes your son. Being a police what is in your blood. Thats why its blue. Im sorry, Im just so invested. Save your mustache. To recap, today, we have talked about what makes ViacomCBS unique, namely that we are the only media company to fully embrace an ecosystem of free, pay and premium streaming services. Its a far cry from the limited entertainment options of my childhood, which were Gilligans Island and Watergate Hearings, great crossover episode, though, when Committee Chairman, Sam Urban made a subpoena out of coconuts. No matter what people are looking for, weve got the service for them as long as theyre looking to stream TV. If theyre looking for something else, like a socket wrench set, try a hardware store or something. I dont know. Take our new service. ParamountPlus, its amazing and way more user-friendly than my idea. Paramount Square Root. ParamountPlus is the only paid streaming service to combine a mountain of entertainment like The Offer, the Rugrats Reboot and the Real World Reunion. Are you guys sure you want to return to the Real World? Because the Real World is a bit of a garbage fire right now. Now ParamountPlus has breaking news and live sports like the PGA Tour, the NFL, Champions League Soccer and March Madness. But if you want to avoid any mention of sports whatsoever, it also carries The Late Show with Stephen Colbert. You know our motto is Dungeons & Dragons a sport? ViacomCBS also offers a free streaming service, Pluto TV, loaded with top-notch content, all to fulfill one mission, to entertain the planet. I do have one question, which planet? Because they named it after Pluto, which Neil deGrasse Tyson says, isnt even a planet anymore. Damn you, Tyson. Thats our business model. And last, but certainly not least, ViacomCBS offers Showtime with programs like Desus & Mero, Billions and Ray Donovan plus combat sports like boxing and MMA an industry secret. If you turn on Showtime at 3:00 a.m., you can watch Ray Donovan fight SpongeBob in a parking lot. Cross-platform synergy, thats what this means. On top of all that, ViacomCBS uses its massive reach across social, digital, linear and streaming to give audiences what they want and then direct them to even more within its platforms and streaming services. Its like a cruise ship buffet, folks can load their plates with barnier, a paella, stir fry, chicken fingers and popcorn shrimp. Then once we got them there, were like how about hitting the chocolate fountain and the unlimited Sheldon bar. Anyway, thank you again for coming. Now please welcome Bob Bakish, Naveen Chopra, Tom Ryan and Anthony DiClemente, who will take questions from investors. You guys will talk about the Dow. You wont believe how many Dow units we have right now. So many Dows. Tell them all the Dow points we won, Bob. Dow-lings. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Thanks, Stephen. Good evening, everyone. Sorry for the late start tonight, that traffic on the 101 was a little bit worse than expected. But thanks for staying with us. Im Anthony DiClemente, EVP of Investor Relations at ViacomCBS. And with me on stage for our Q&A session is Bob Bakish, our CEO; Naveen Chopra, our CFO; and Tom Ryan, President and CEO of Streaming. Were going to spend the next 30 minutes answering questions. Our analysts are joining us by Zoom. (Operator Instructions) With that, we can now open the line. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Our first question comes from Alexia Quadrani at JPMorgan. 29 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Alexia Skouras Quadrani - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Can you hear me? I just want to clarify -- I wanted to clarify on a couple of things and ask a question. I guess my main question is really on the windowing. On -- I think Jims spent a couple of minutes talking about how they were -- some movies are going direct to theaters, and then they were going to go to ParamountPlus after 45 days. Im curious if that is a universal decision or is it really noted movie by movie. And you will then -- you contract the movie? Or is that something youre going to do across the board when youre looking at ParamountPlus? And then I just wanted to follow-up on 2 other really small points that you mentioned. If you could talk about whether or not youll be breaking out Showtime at the subs separately, if youll give us domestic versus global as well. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. Alexia, its Bob. Let me take the first part of your question. So were very excited about the film offering were bringing to consumers under ParamountPlus. Its a multifaceted, and robust part of that offering is enabled by us getting access to the Paramount pay one product through this new deal we have with EPIX. We will basically have 2 different models there. Therell be a subset of titles, including A Quiet Place Part 2 and Mission Impossible 7 in 2021, and then therell be additional titles in 22 and 23. And those titles will have a short theatrical run -- exclusive theatrical run, where they go 45 days, and then on day 45 will go to ParamountPlus, where they reside for a while. And then later on, EPIX will pick them up. Therell be another set of titles where EPIX has them first. The window wont be quite that short and then Paramount will pick them up. We do believe 2 things. We believe in the value of theatrical, particularly for pictures like a Mission Impossible or a Top Gun, really big screen experiences. But we also believe the consumer is interested in titles earlier on streaming, and we believe thats an important proposition for us to supply. So that is the direction were going, and we think its going to work out well. Naveen, you want to take the other 2 points? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Sure. So in terms of breakdown between services and then domestic versus international, were not planning to break each of our services apart in our future reporting. However, I would tell you that we do expect ParamountPlus will be the primary driver of subscriber growth going forward. And in terms of domestic versus global, we really look at streaming as a global opportunity. And so well be reporting both our advertising revenues as well as subscription on a global basis going forward. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Well take our next question from Mike Morris at Guggenheim Securities. Mike, go ahead. Michael C. Morris - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Im curious with respect to that long-term guidance you gave looking to 2024, if you can share any thoughts on sort of the trajectory to achieve that, both on the subscriber side and also on the financial side. Do you expect it to be straight line? Is it something thats faster early or it kind of ramps up? Curious how youre thinking about that. And then on the content investment side, we understand the growth that you laid out from the $1 billion to the $5 billion Im also curious about how you think about the licensing revenue thats been a strong part of the business for quite a long time. As you think about the future there, should we think about some contraction to that revenue stream as you allocate more internally? Or any thoughts that you have on how that basis would be great. Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Ill start on the pacing of the growth. Let me remind you that we talked about achieving a 65 million to 75 million SVOD subscribers by 2024, by the end of 2024 and 100 million to 120 million global Pluto MAUs and $7 billion of revenue. Were already got a ton of momentum toward those goals finishing 2020 with $3.6 billion run rate of streaming revenue. And we expect that significant growth along the way. We did not provide an annual breakdown because there will be parts where we might enter into certain new deals or launch certain content that could make it be a little 30 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call spiky here and there. But we do think that well continue to make progress both in 2021 and in the subsequent years. Bob, do you want to take the content license question? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director So look, on the content licensing side, you look at ViacomCBS. Were obviously a powerhouse content producer from an original standpoint and then have broad and deep libraries to back that up. Weve long been in the content licensing business. But as weve scaled our streaming trajectory, particularly on the pay side, what youve seen us do is lean more towards the streaming side, particularly when it comes towards franchises and IP. And if you watch what we presented today, you see franchise and originals really across the in all the genres that were bringing to ParamountPlus. We believe thats critical to attracting subscribers, and we believe that links very well to library. Now as we do that, we pick up more internal licensing versus third-party licensing. In addition, we obviously are rolling ParamountPlus out globally. There, we have specific countries that weve announced, and we have a specific plan beyond that going forward. And as we go to pay O&O streaming in a country, whether thats Latin America or Australia or the Nordics that weve already announced, or other countries down the road, youll see us pick up what might have been prior output deals and then have them go to more in-house output deals. Thats certainly whats going on in the launch countries, including with respect to Showtime because Showtime product will be part of Mountain ParamountPlus outside the U.S. So yes, that poses a change in composition of the business, but it doesnt mean were exiting the business. We still like the business. It does provide some attractive financial characteristics as well as being an important platform for franchise development. So example, you saw us bringing a new version of iCarly to ParamountPlus this year as part of our kids offering. We do have prior seasons of the original iCarly available today on a large -- and we think that helps with franchise development. So hopefully, that helps you understand the trajectory were going down. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Mike. Our next question will come from Brett Feldman at Goldman Sachs. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst I know that you are going to be giving us more details on your domestic distribution partners as you roll out the entry-level plan later this year. But I was hoping maybe you could talk broadly about the role you expect third-party distributors to play in expanding the reach of the service. Im also particularly interested in how you think MVPDs could be meaningful partners because, on the one hand, your service is probably very appealing to the cable companys broadband bases. On the other hand, it could theoretically stimulate additional cord-cutting. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Brett, let me hop in here. This is Bob, because if you look at the history of Viacom, particularly Viacom legacy, what you see is, over the last 4 years, weve substantially grown our book of business and diversified our book of business with, in particular, MVPDs. And what I mean by that is were not only launching licensing linear feeds but were also engaged in advanced ad partnerships and more recently licensing apps, whether those are free apps like Pluto or paid apps like, at the time, CBS All Access. And thats really all about being a multifaceted and, more important, content supplier. We found that works particularly well, particularly as those entities build out broadband distribution. So we like being a valued content player to a broad range of distributors. Thats very much our strategy and certainly will be so as we roll out ParamountPlus. And maybe, Tom, you want to add a little more there. Thomas Ryan - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of Streaming Yes. So thanks. Certainly in discussions right now with a number of different partners about how we can expand the distribution for ParamountPlus. Pluto is a very widely distributed service. Paramount or CBS All Access has been a very widely distributed service. And were in discussions about 31 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call how we can accelerate the distribution of ParamountPlus as it rolls out. As Naveen mentioned in his remarks, the $4.99 tier, which rolls out in June, gives us much greater flexibility in how we go about providing promotional distribution with partners, and so well have to announce on that. We really are just getting started. So stay tuned. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Lets take our next question from Ben Swinburne at Morgan Stanley. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Can you hear me, Anthony? Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Yes, we can hear you well. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Great. Bob, when I look at your streaming forecast, particularly on the subscriber side, its basically, I think, 10 million a year or so on average. Im just wondering how much of an opportunity is it to use the 3 different products, I guess, this is a U.S. question, to drive growth. In other words, you had these products in the market for some time. But are there opportunities that you can take advantage of that you havent yet taken advantage of it to sort of cross-promote? I noticed you didnt talk about sort of a ViacomCBS bundle across all these with the bundled price. Just wondering if you could talk a little bit about your opportunities there. And then Naveen, I know you probably want to answer this, but I wanted to take a shot. As we think about the whole companys EBITDA outlook, should we expect growth after 21 as you scale this business? I mean, $7 billion-plus of revenue is substantial. Is 21 sort of the peak investment year, and youll start to get some benefits across the entire ViacomCBS company over time? Anything you could tell us about the EBITDA outlook for the business would be great. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So sure, let me start. So for about a year now, Ive been talking about a streaming ecosystem that crosses free, pay and premium. And that is not just because we believe there were 3 lanes there. We do, obviously. But its really because we believe that, that creates an opportunity that can collectively create value. So for example, using our free service, Pluto, as a funnel to not only attract MAUs that we can generate ad revenue from but also to upsell them. And weve recently done that with the Showtime channel, which actually proved that it was a better upsell channel that, in fact, in terms of attracting subscribers than YouTube. We also have bundled some of our products. So in the case of Showtime OTT and CBS All Access, we created a combined bundle at a discounted price and sold that through an over-the-top distributor also to great effect. So absolutely, there are opportunities to create value. And Tom, and Ill turn it to Tom next, is working on a more seamless version of this ecosystem, which we believe would create even better in the form of lowering acquisition costs, managing churn, increasing lifetime value. So yes, we think the ecosystem is a really powerful concept, and thats why were so focused on it. Tom? Thomas Ryan - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of Streaming Yes. So as Bob said, weve been on the upsell opportunities within our free ecosystem now for the better part of the year. Weve been having increasingly more effective and exciting results. Bob mentioned the Showtime Selects opportunity that -- where we spun up a channel on Pluto TV, driving more impressions for Showtime than the same viewership did on YouTube. Were doing the same -- weve been doing the same thing 32 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call on CBS All Access. And of course, well be launching a similar channel for ParamountPlus. However, the super funnel really allows us to take advantage of different parts of our system, not just our #1 free ad-supported streaming TV service in Pluto TV, but our #1 reach in linear television across all demographics and our #1 spot in digital. So we see big opportunities for bundles going forward. Well have more to announce on that soon. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. And then, Ben, to the second part of your question, which really speaks, I think, more broadly to the question of profitability and investment, I would say the following. Number one, we are very excited about the long-term potential of streaming to be a nicely profitable business ViacomCBS as a whole. We think that because the size of the opportunity is massive, as we talked about, 1 billion SVOD subscribers, $100 billion SVOD revenue potential, $50 billion AVOD market, and we think weve got a strategy that gives us some advantages in terms of turning that into our profitable business by having a dual revenue stream, by having the ability to leverage content across multiple channels, multiple services, multiple windows. And so over time, we think that is going to contribute very nicely to the company. In the short to medium term, however, we are focused on the growth, and it will require investment to realize that growth. And I think that the plan we laid out today is very consistent with what we said back in our Q3 call, which was that we are going to have to increase our levels of investment in streaming in 2021 as we begin down that path, and were excited about what thats going to unlock in the long term. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Why dont we take our next question from Rich Greenfield at LightShed. Richard Scott Greenfield - LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst Can you hear me? Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Yes. Richard Scott Greenfield - LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst When CBS All Access was created, the affiliates were clearly your partner. But it appears that the affiliate content, meaning live TV, I think you said will not be part of the base streaming tier for ParamountPlus just based on price, I presume would be the one most consumers choose, but it will still have most valuable affiliate content, which is the NFL. And so I just wanted to understand, first, are the affiliates okay with these changes that youre making. Like have those deals been worked out with all of the affiliates? And then number two, I think David Devons mentioned that hes producing one of the most exciting shows, new shows exclusively for ParamountPlus but out of the Showtime development team. He had a show like Billions or that new show which look great called Yellow Jackets are going to showtime. And I guess, maybe for Bob, how do you decide what goes where? I guess it was just not clear. Like whos choosing which goes to Showtime versus what goes to ParamountPlus? And that works out would be great to understand. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So Rich, let me jump in. Ill actually take both of them. So first of all, what we announced today, we absolutely have the right respect to the $4.99 tier. Second, we have partnerships of all sorts of dimensions across this industry, including with the distribution community, and that obviously includes MVPDs, stations and other types of distributors. And so as we move forward and transform businesses, we are, for sure, sensitive to those partnerships. The station side, obviously, the live local feeds are in the $9.99 version of the product. The stations participate economically in that and in that growth. They get their local news exhibited there, et cetera. So we are sensitive to it. At the same time, we are also moving forward with 33 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call a simplified version of the product that we think meets the market. As to the split of subscribers over time, well have to see. Theyre both compelling for different reasons. The second part of your question, Showtime, the first thing Id say is on Halo, that show was commissioned when there was no vision for ParamountPlus. As David said, its been in development and now in production for some time. And we came to the conclusion, he and I jointly, that the characteristics of that show were better linked to a broad product of ParamountPlus than Showtime as we look to get the most possible value out of it. At the same time, the other shows you mentioned, including Yellow Jackets, which looks phenomenal, I mean, they are, if you will, classic Showtime in that they are definitely edgier. They are definitely riskier. They are definitely a little bit more visually jarring, a.k.a, a little less mass market. And so we like them in the Showtime lane. And by the way, Showtime has been doing fantastic. As David said, its had a great one financially this year. Its had 2 back-to-back strong years on the over-the-top subscriber side, and the trajectory looks quite good, particularly as it stays in this premium lane where others kind of move around a bit. So we like Showtime in its lane. Im really excited about the slate. And by the way, if you havent seen Your Honor, you really should, Rich. That was a show we released in the fourth quarter. Its the biggest hit, a new hit of the year on Showtime, and its fabulous. So hopefully, that helps. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Yes. Your honor is gripping. Why dont we take our next question from John Janedis at Wolfe Research? John Janedis - Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Media Analyst Great. Can you talk a little bit more about the pricing strategy? As you know, Netflix continues to enjoy pricing around the top end of the market, and been spending a lot of money and price to take share. So over the long term, how are you thinking about pricing power? And how relevant is the price point of the other services in the market after the initial land grab, given what seems to be a pretty big commitment on the programming side? Thomas Ryan - ViacomCBS Inc. - President & CEO of Streaming Sure. Ill take that. So we came up with the pricing strategy because we wanted to, one, serve the greatest addressable audience, which we think the 2 tiers does. And also, the 2 tiers allow us to drive both subscription and advertising revenue. And in addition, the $4.99 tier gives us greater flexibility in how we go-to-market with distribution partners. The $4.99 tier has way more content than CBS All Access had. The $9.99 tier has more live sports, more breaking news and it has no ads. And so we came up with those by doing a variety of research, listening to customer and understanding what we thought would be the price points that would allow us to address the greatest possible audience. And so we think that those are great places for us to be. Over time, if -- as we see success, well revisit those price points. But right now, we think that those are the best price points to go to market with, and theyre clearly very competitive in each of their respective lanes. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Great. Lets take our next question from John Hodulik at UBS. John Christopher Hodulik - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD, Sector Head of the United States Communications Group and Telco & Pay TV Analyst Can you hear me? 34 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Yes. Yes. Go ahead. John Christopher Hodulik - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD, Sector Head of the United States Communications Group and Telco & Pay TV Analyst Okay. Great. First, thanks for all the info that you guys shared today. 2 quick ones. I think, first of all, and you guys may have gone over this, but is the $4 billion in content spend all incremental to the sort of total company spend in 24? And then second, any clues you can give us in terms of the expected advertising ARPU component of the ad-supported tier? Any targets or any of the sort of components you can give us to sort of build up to a number? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. Ill start on the first part of your question in terms of content spend. Just to be clear, we didnt provide any specific guidance about total company content spend. But let me give you some context for that in general because I think its very important to recognize that, as a company, we spend about $15 billion in content investment. Thats what we had budgeted for 2020. And what that does in terms of the strategic value for us that ultimately benefit streaming, I think, goes well beyond the $5 billion that we have sort of allocated from a financial perspective in our 2024 goals. That $15 billion investment creates and gives us access to content that would be very difficult to do with a smaller level of spend. It builds a phenomenal platform for promotion and driving awareness of our streaming services. And it feeds a library that ultimately becomes very, very valuable for streaming. Over time, the mix of that $15 billion in terms of how much is dedicated to streaming versus how much is sort of doing double duty between multiple distribution channels will evolve. And we think thats going to be a really powerful component for driving our streaming services going forward here. In terms of the second part of the question in terms of the component that was advertising-related, were not breaking out the specific composition of the $7 billion of revenue that we hope to achieve in 2024. We do think advertising is going to be a meaningful part of it. You can look at the -- our current streaming revenues. You can see that advertising is -- we did about $1.4 billion of digital video advertising in 2020. Weve got tremendous momentum. That business is growing at close to 70%. And were seeing strong growth in MAUs and were adding to the monetization potential on services, not just Pluto but also ParamountPlus through the introduction of the lower-cost tier. So we do think that advertising will be a major piece of what our business looks like going out into the future. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Lets take our next question from Robert Fishman at MoffettNathanson. Robert S. Fishman - MoffettNathanson LLC - Analyst Great. Can you speak more about how important ParamountPlus is for your future sports rights negotiations, either as an exclusive home for new games, or a hybrid approach for new rights going forward, including the upcoming NFL renewal. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure, Robert. So as I say, ParamountPlus, live sports, breaking news, mountain of entertainment, the live sports component, we believe, is compelling. From a subscriber acquisition and from an engagement standpoint, we obviously exhibit a variety of sports on CBS, and by extension today on ParamountPlus, whether its the NFL, the NCAA, Golf, we recently did a deal UEFA, which is overwhelmingly now ParamountPlus, it was CBS All Access with little bit of CBS carriage. I think thats a good example of a hybrid deal that you mentioned because what it allowed us to do was get exclusive products for ParamountPlus but also help the leagues in terms of their audience development longer term by benefiting from broadcast. So we think 35 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call ParamountPlus is an important -- its obviously a critical product for us. Overall. It is an integral part of our sports paradigm. I talked with Sean McManus a lot about that, including today. Sean runs CBS Sports. and yes, going forward, you will see us use that platform as a key component of our overall sports business. Some of it will be exclusive to ParamountPlus. Some of it will be broader. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Lets take our next question from Steve Cahall at Wells Fargo. Steven Lee Cahall - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst Yes. Sorry about that. So Bob, you talked a little bit about churn in one of the previous questions. And I think a lot of managing streaming is about managing churn. So maybe just help us think through the decision to continue to keep Showtime and ParamountPlus separate because it does seem like theres a lot of premium content on both. And now you kind of got one content budget but sitting with 2 services that might have higher churn as a result. And then just on the subscriber guidance, any kind of big buckets of splitting that between maybe domestic and international for us? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. So Steve, again, we like the 2 lanes that we see, one for ParamountPlus, one for Showtime. They both -- ParamountPlus in its prior iteration, CBS All Access and Showtime, had very strong performance on the subscriber side and subscriber revenue side. And they both have distinct positionings, and we believe in brand positionings. We think thats important consumers to understand what theyre, in this case, buying and help them navigate a sea of choice. And again, the positions of Showtime versus ParamountPlus are different. We are going to run a combined product outside the United States. It will be called ParamountPlus, and it will include Showtime. So we will have the benefit of looking at both configurations, and we can look at a variety of metrics as we do that, including, as you stated, churn. But at the moment, we like the split play in the U.S. We believe that will allow us to generate larger overall revenues and maintain real positioning power against the competitive landscape. In terms of your guidance... Steven Lee Cahall - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst On the domestic international split? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Sure. Were not providing an explicit breakdown between domestic and international in terms of our long-term goals. I will say that we think they are both very important. As I said earlier, we look at streaming as a global opportunity. And we have big ambitions, both for domestic subscriber growth as well as international subscriber growth and an advertising business across the board. And the reality is depending on the pace at which we launched in international markets, you may see that split actually evolve over time. But as I said, were really focused on the global opportunity. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR I think we have time for one last question. Well take our last question from Vijay Jayant at Evercore ISI. Vijay A. Jayant - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division - Senior MD and Head of Media, Entertainment, Cable, Satellite & Telecommunication Hope you can hear me. So Im just trying to understand sort of the economics of this business. So if you look at your legacy business today, which did something on just in the domestic market, when you look at affiliate and advertising, its something like $17 million, $18 billion. And if you divide that by the 70-odd million subscribers in the U.S., its about $18 per subscriber a month. When you talk about your pricing for these products, 36 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call obviously, you dont know what the app component is. How is this going to be accretive to the enterprise long? Is it going to be -- do you think therell be better margins here? Or the scale will be so substantial that it will kind of compensate for, obviously, the leaner businesses got secular pressures. Im just trying to understand the accretiveness of this transaction -- of this plan. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Naveen, you want to take that? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes, Im happy to jump in that. At the end of the day, I mean, you kind of hit on the 2 key components in your question. We do think that, over time, scale present a tremendous opportunity in streaming. We have the ability to distribute our content in more places and in more channels than we could in the traditional model, where were dependent on -- generally on MVPD distribution. And number two, we think the dual revenue stream approach can be really valuable in the streaming context and the ability to, over time, generate incremental ARPU, both from subscribers but even more so in the form of advertising revenue is something that we are very bullish about. And we theres a long track record of being able to generate incremental advertising revenue as our viewership becomes more and more valuable to advertisers. So we do think, obviously, in the short term, were not able to put all of that together instantaneously in terms of the per-sub economics. But over time, we are really excited about that opportunity. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director And the other thing Id just add to it is Pluto. Implicit in your numbers, I think, are the pay side of the business, particularly when you look at the scale. But we see Pluto as another very meaningful business. Its obviously 100% ad-supported, but it is not only domestic. It is global. So you really should add that into the equation as well because as that continues to scale, it also is a very powerful tool for advertisers to use. You see them ramping in its consumption very materially as we speak. And so that is additive to the total enterprise as well. So we are very excited about the future trajectory of the business, our ability, first and foremost, to serve consumers, but then, obviously, to monetize that through multiple revenue streams, subscription, advertising and, to a lesser extent, things like ancillary and consumer products. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Well, thanks, Vijay, and thanks, everyone, for your questions and for joining us tonight. With that, Im going to hand it back to Bob for some closing remarks. Bob? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Thanks, Anthony. Look, on behalf of the entire ViacomCBS leadership team, thank you for joining us today. I know the session was long, but we appreciate that you stuck with us. It was a little more than a year ago when the ViacomCBS merger closed. And at the time, I said we were ready to hit the ground running to unlock value across this entire company. Well fast forward a year, and you see our content position is strong. You see a real operating momentum. You can see it in our Q4 results. And those results were driven by the continuation of, and really an acceleration of, a strategy thats clearly working. And those results include nearly tripling of our global streaming subscriber base and more than doubling of our streaming subscription revenue in the last 2 years. And thats obviously before we launched everything that youve seen here today. Now over the years, weve learned that if you want to stand out in entertainment, as in life, it helps to stand for something. And as we told you today, when it comes to streaming, we stand for something unique, an ecosystem of free, pay and premium streaming, underpinned in pay by the new ParamountPlus service, which is a streaming service that combines live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment. And its a streaming service that will resonate with broad and diverse audiences and its a streaming service that has a robust slate of originals, which will only grow by harnessing the combined hit-making power of this global content company. So we are tremendously excited about the role of ViacomCBS in the streaming future of media, and we look forward to delivering on our long-term goals for streaming and more because we know that will deliver growth and 37 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call shareholder value creation at this company. Lastly, I want to thank the team you heard from today and really all the amazing employees at ViacomCBS who are bringing our streaming strategy to life each and every day. And I want to thank all of you as well for your time and your support. Stay well, everyone. Well talk to you soon. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2021, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13598139-2021-03-22T18:42:03.223 38 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. FEBRUARY 24, 2021 / 9:45PM, VIAC.OQ - Q4 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call"
"Paramount";"Earnings Transcript";"REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call EVENT DATE/TIME: AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM GMT OVERVIEW: Co. reported 2Q20 total Co. revenue of $6.28b and adjusted EPS of $1.25. REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Anthony Joseph DiClemente ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Christina Spade ViacomCBS Inc. - Financial Advisor Robert Marc Bakish ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Alexia Skouras Quadrani JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Benjamin Daniel Swinburne Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Brett Joseph Feldman Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Michael Brian Nathanson MoffettNathanson LLC - Founding Partner & Senior Research Analyst Michael C. Morris Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Richard Scott Greenfield LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Good day, everyone, and welcome to the ViacomCBS Second Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. Todays call is being recorded. At this time, Id like to turn the call over to Executive Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Anthony DiClemente. Please go ahead, sir. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Good morning, everyone. Thank you for taking the time to join us for our second quarter 2020 earnings call. Joining me for todays discussion are Bob Bakish, our President and CEO; and Chris Spade, our CFO. Please note that in addition to our earnings release, we have trending schedules containing supplemental information available on our website. We also have a slide presentation for you to follow along with our remarks. I want to refer you to the second slide in the presentation and remind you that certain statements made on this call are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in more detail in our filings with the SEC. Todays remarks will focus on adjusted results. Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information discussed on this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website. With that, I will turn the call over to Bob. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Im pleased to report that ViacomCBS second quarter delivered a continuation of, and in many respects an acceleration of, the 3 key themes we outlined on our Q1 call. First, despite headwinds from COVID-19, ViacomCBS delivered another solid quarter with sequential improvement in key earnings and cash flow metrics and clear operational momentum. Second, we continue to proactively manage through the pandemic, taking significant steps to strengthen our business, preserve the value of our assets, increase our financial flexibility and further reduce costs. And third, we continue to focus on and deliver on value creation, unlocking the power of ViacomCBS and, specifically, our synergistic combination of studios, networks and streaming. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call In the quarter, we continued to integrate the company and increased our projection for cost savings, both in year and overall. We made significant progress in distribution, and we rapidly accelerated our streaming business. Here, we achieved record users in revenue in free and pay, all while simultaneously making material progress towards the relaunch of our diversified super service. So theres a lot to talk about. Let me start with an overview of the financials and some key operating highlights from the quarter. Financially, ViacomCBS posted the combined companys second consecutive quarter of sequential improvement in operating income, adjusted OIBDA, adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted free cash flow, this on both an absolute dollar and rate of change basis. While advertising revenue declined 27% in the quarter, overwhelmingly due to COVID, we continue to expect Q2 to be the bottom in terms of year-over-year decline. To that end, weve seen sequential improvement month-over-month since April, June was strong, and were encouraged by what were seeing so far in Q3. We believe this reflects not only economic optimism for a gradual recovery but also the power of our portfolio and the significant value we bring to advertisers. Affiliate revenue grew 2% in the quarter, with growth in pricing, retrans, reverse comp and streaming revenues more than offsetting pay TV subscriber declines. We anticipate this momentum to continue in the second half of the year. In addition, we increased domestic streaming and digital video revenue, which includes streaming subscription and digital video advertising revenue by 25%, reflecting record user growth in our streaming products, including 52% growth in subscription revenue. Moving to earnings. Cost-cutting initiatives and proactive cash management helped offset COVID- and timing-related revenue impacts. Here, the company reported 8% adjusted OIBDA growth in the quarter and generated $892 million of adjusted free cash flow, bringing year-to-date adjusted free cash flow to nearly $1.4 billion, up 19% year-on-year. Keep in mind that the second quarter free cash flow includes a significant working capital benefit from COVID-related programming shifts and production delays. As film and TV production builds in the second half, we do anticipate some reversal of the working capital benefit. Operationally, the enduring strength of our brands and IP is enabling us to successfully navigate this landscape. During the quarter, our domestic media networks held the highest share of TV viewing in all key audience demos. In broadcast, CBS finished the season as Americas most watched network for the 12th straight year. CBS was #1 in all key dayparts for the third season, with the most watched drama and most watched news program in prime, the top 5 comedies and the #1 late night show, plus 7 of the top 8 new series. We also maintained our leadership as the #1 cable portfolio and share of TV viewing across all key demos, with more top 30 cable networks than any other media family. Nickelodeon was #1 with kids 2 to 11 for the 20th consecutive quarter and owned all of the top 10 original series. MTV had its best second quarter ratings performance in 2 years, and Comedy Central marked its 13th straight quarter of year-over-year share growth. And Showtime had the top show on premium cable for 2 consecutive quarters and the top 3 premium scripted series so far this year. Internationally, we continue to build on a global footprint that includes 190 million broadcast homes, the biggest in the world, and 2.7 billion cumulative TV homes. Our international linear share of viewing across countries increased 11% year-over-year. And Im very proud to announce that for the first time, in June, Tubular Labs ranked ViacomCBS the #1 media entertainment company in social. Not only does this reinforce our popularity and the relevance of our brands and IP in the digital space, but our huge social platform is also an important marketing tool, particularly as we gear up for the relaunch of our streaming super service. And speaking of streaming, we have continued our momentum in user, subscriber and consumption growth across our streaming platforms as we increasingly lean into this opportunity. In free, Pluto TVs domestic MAUs grew 61% to 26.5 million, and we remain confident that Pluto will achieve its 30 million domestic MAU target by year-end. And Pluto TV is also ramping up outside the U.S., something Ill come back to shortly. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And in pay, we ended the quarter with 16.2 million subscribers, up 74% year-on-year, reaching our year-end goal 6 months ahead of plan. Here, CBS All Access had a great quarter, and youll hear more about where that product is going in a minute. And Showtime OTT had its best quarter ever in subscriber growth. And in the last 6 months alone, Showtime OTT has grown more than the previous 2.5 years combined. As we rapidly grow and evolve our streaming business, were now increasing our domestic pay streaming subscriber guidance to 18 million by year-end. This growth, in addition to the revenue growth I mentioned earlier, supports our conviction in the growth potential of our streaming offering, and were just getting started. The combined strengths of our networks and streaming offerings also enabled us to make important strides in domestic distribution, where we struck significant carriage agreements. In April, we signed a truly comprehensive multi-platform partnership with Verizon, spanning pay TV, connected TV and mobile. One particularly exciting component of this deal is the significant expansion of Pluto TV footprint that it enables, one which is rolling out on Verizon Wireless as we speak. Then in May, we announced a new deal with YouTube TV. This deal renewed CBS and Showtime early and, importantly, brought Viacoms cable networks to the fast-growing service. Viacoms brands went live on YouTube in late June, and were thrilled to now provide MTV, Nickelodeon, Comedy Central, BET and more to its customers. More recently, in July, we announced a multiyear renewal with DISH and Sling TV. This was our third cross-company renewal, further demonstrating the power of our brands and content. And we continue to benefit from strong reverse comp, recently signing agreements with Sinclair and Cox, in addition to Nexstar and Meredith earlier in the year. This deal-making and more is reflective of the fact that ViacomCBS is a cornerstone content provider to a broad range of distributors. The combination here is powerful. And Im happy to say we expect sequential improvement in year-over-year growth rates for domestic cable networks and total company affiliate revenue in Q3 and Q4. Now turning from performance in the quarter to the second theme: how weve been managing through COVID. Here, there are a couple of points worth mentioning. First, we continue to fortify our balance sheet, enabling us to navigate the pandemic from a position of continued financial strength. During the quarter, we issued 2 debt transactions totaling $4.5 billion and used the proceeds to pay down $2.8 billion of upcoming maturities, including a $340 million redemption that settled in July. As a result, we dont have any maturities due until 2022. And we also have access to a committed and undrawn $3.5 billion revolver. Simultaneously, we have taken action to preserve and maximize the value of our assets, particularly in the film space. This starts with moving marquee film releases to 2021 when we believe the theatrical market will be stronger. In addition, we decided to take The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run and deploy this asset as part of our rebrand and relaunch of CBS All Access early in 2021 when well also have a short PVOD window leading into it. Paramount continues to be an incredible asset for the company. And while there werent any new titles released in the quarter, we were able to capitalize on the strength and breadth of the studios massive library of product as well as from our recently established joint venture with Miramax. And we remain excited about our film slate and look forward to opening fantastic films as the market stabilizes. Broadly speaking, everyone knows that COVID has presented material production challenges, but despite that, through alternate models, ViacomCBS continues to present consumers with fresh content in news, late night and selected unscripted areas. And in the quarter, we also resumed sports production with PGA Golf on CBS. It goes without saying that there is tremendous pent-up demand for live sports. Ratings for the Charles Schwab Challenge, the Travelers Championship and the Rocket Mortgage Classic have all been very strong. In fact, since returning to live golf, CBS Sports overall viewership is up 25% from comparable events last year. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And building on that, were excited to have Bellator and Showtime Boxing back on air, along with UEFA soccer premiering on CBS and CBS All Access this week. And we look forward to the return of football in the fall, including last weeks announcement that the SEC has confirmed its in-conference game schedule, and we continue to be optimistic about the NFL 2 given all the work they are doing. With respect to entertainment product, we have already started to resume production activity, albeit on a smaller scale. Our priority is to restart our production safely and in compliance with local health and safety standards. There are, of course, a lot of moving parts to manage returning to production, and weve been collaborating with our industry partners on industry-wide recommendations. Were using a phased approach based on geography, show format, in-studio versus location-based productions, along with other considerations. But against this backdrop, things are ramping up. As examples, Tyler Perry just wrapped production on the new season of Sistas for BET. Were in production and close to completing Yellowstone in Utah and are about to start filming season 4 in Wyoming. And we recently started shooting a live action show for Nickelodeon in Canada. Add to that, we have a series of unscripted productions underway, including Big Brother, which debuted this week. And were excited about Love Island, which will be broadcasting 7 days a week once it debuts in late summer. Looking forward, we have a pipeline of productions moving towards starting. And were optimistic that volume will grow, ensuring we have fresh product on air in the fall. And third, through it all, we continue to be focused on value creation. Value creation starts with delivering on the material cost savings opportunity associated with the integration of Viacom and CBS. Here, we continue to make quick progress. In fact, we are increasing our expected 2020 merger-related cost synergies from $250 million to $300 million. And we expect to achieve annualized run rate cost synergies of $800 million, up from our prior $750 million by the end of 2022. And of course, we continue to look for additional opportunity, including based on how weve had to rethink our operations since March. While its premature to put a number on this, the experience sets the stage for further transformation and cost savings. But the combination of ViacomCBS is not only about value creation through cost savings. Its even more about value creation through revenue generation. I already spoke about the very material progress weve made on the distribution side and how that will lead to further sequential improvement in affiliate revenue this year. Here, the merger thesis is clearly coming to life. Streaming is another area where the power of the ViacomCBS combination is beginning to come to life. And this is critical since streaming is probably the most material value creation opportunity in media today. Building off our momentum in user, subscriber and consumption growth across our streaming platforms, we will capitalize on our positions across free and pay. This includes adding substantial content assets and user experience enhancements, broadening distribution and leaning into marketing to serve consumers with a robust differentiated suite of linked streaming offering. In short, by providing consumers with the broadest video experience, spanning news, sports, entertainment, local and live across free and pay, we will be a global leader in freemium streaming. Let me unpack that a bit. In free, we continue to build on Pluto TVs position as the #1 free streaming TV service in the United States. During the quarter, Pluto saw strong growth and numerous product enhancements. This starts with content, where we continue to add more and more high-quality IP to our market-leading service. In fact, Pluto now has over 100,000 hours of compelling content available on it. As part of that, we gave you nightly South Park airings on Comedy Central Pluto TV, we launched CSI and Star Trek next-generation channels, and we plan to debut more than 40 other CBS shows, including Survivor, Amazing Race, JAG, Americas Top Model, MacGyver and more. And of course, we continue to add a broad range of compelling third-party content in both entertainment and sports, including renewals with the NFL and Major League soccer. We also ramped up Pluto TVs distribution across multiple devices and services. I mentioned Verizons first-of-its-kind deal earlier, but we also had major distribution expansions with TiVo and LG, which, on a combined basis, will shortly bring the Pluto TV service to well over 80 million new devices, setting the stage for the next leg of material growth. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And this growth is not just about Pluto. It will also benefit our pay streaming strategy as we progressively build a linked ecosystem of free and pay D2C services that will fulfill fundamental consumer needs around quality, convenience and cost. Here, Pluto will serve as an important complement to and funnel for our pay services. In pay, weve progressed materially in the past few months, including being firmly on track with our CBS All Access transformation. On our last call, I said wed preview a transformed service this summer. Last week, we did just that, adding the companys flagship brands, Nickelodeon, BET, Comedy Central, MTV, Smithsonian and 3,500 episodes from their libraries, bringing CBS All Access offering to more than 20,000 episodes. This, in addition to the 150-plus Paramount movies we added roughly 2 months ago. Apart from its vast library, the new service will continue to have compelling live offerings, spanning CBS local affiliates, tentpole events and a critical mass of live sports, from golf to football to basketball, plus exclusive streaming rights for major sports properties, including some of the worlds biggest and most popular soccer leagues, adding a massive volume of compelling live sports content at just the right time. And as we get into 2021, expect to see a significant expansion of first-run originals, including originals from all the brands. This will be a truly differentiated streaming product, and we are very excited about the opportunity. And I want to reiterate that were doing all this in a targeted, capital-efficient way. We already have developed and scaled technology in the form of CBS All Access. We have a robust slate of exclusive originals from which we continue to build. Almost every dollar we invest in linear content across the company will benefit the service with varying windows. We have established distribution points across all major platforms and high user engagement. And were not starting from zero. Existing customers will benefit from the expanded library, service enhancements and product development, further reducing churn and driving greater value. Outside the U.S., we also see a tremendous runway for growth in both free and pay streaming, and were moving quickly. Pluto entered selected markets in Europe last year, and in April, entered into 17 Spanish-speaking Latin American markets. In fact, on a global basis, Pluto TV now has 33 million MAUs. Looking ahead, our goal is to expand our channel lineup in Latin America to reach more than 70 channels by the end of the year and to continue expanding our content offering in Germany, Switzerland, Austria and the U.K. Well also add more distribution platforms to accelerate the expansion. And our geographic expansion will continue, with plans underway to launch new local versions of Pluto TV in a number of additional priority markets, including Brazil and Spain this year and France and Italy in 2021. Importantly, these are all markets where ViacomCBS has strong local operations, including a large pipeline of local language content in place and ready to go. The Pluto TV platform is powerful, and the world is quickly embracing it. And in pay, were targeting early 21 for the launch of our international streaming service, a super-sized offering of truly compelling content with first-run originals and library from all ViacomCBS brands, including Showtime. We will focus next years initial rollout on a set of high-value territories where we see an opportunity to become the market leader. These territories include Australia, Latin America and the Nordics. Our streaming strategy is working, and its really just getting going. As you can see, its about value creation on a global scale for the short and long term. And I look forward to updating you as we pass key milestones in the coming quarters. Now before I turn it over, I want to thank Chris for her relentless hard work and dedication to CBS and now ViacomCBS. Over the past 23 years, shes been a critical financial operator. And over the past year, shes played an integral role in helping combine and integrate ViacomCBS. On a personal level, Im so grateful for her dedication, contributions, and I really look forward to watching her future endeavors. From all of management and from the ViacomCBS Board, thank you, Chris. With that, Ill hand it over to provide additional financial detail on the quarter. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Christina Spade - ViacomCBS Inc. - Financial Advisor Thank you, Bob, and good morning, everyone. It has been an amazing journey to be with ViacomCBS, and I do believe the best is yet to come for our united company based upon the strong performance momentum taking hold. As you can see in our results for the second quarter, COVID-19 did have an anticipated negative impact to our top line revenue performance. However, in preparing for this downturn in early March, we quickly pivoted to more disciplined expense management for Q2 and 2020 to ensure we maximize our financial performance in light of the lower top line trends. We delivered solid results in the second quarter of 2020. Adjusted OIBDA, adjusted EPS and adjusted free cash flow all improved sequentially for the second quarter in a row, evidence of ViacomCBS ability to manage through COVID-19 and demonstrating the power of our united company. Today, I will first take you through our second quarter results in more detail. Then I will update you on the actions we have taken to strengthen our liquidity and financial flexibility. And finally, I will provide you with some insights for the remainder of the year. Lets start with our financial performance in the quarter. As a result of COVID-19 and our ongoing restructuring plans, we have made several adjustments to our results. These adjustments include $121 million in programming charges associated with the abandonment of incomplete programs resulting from COVID-related production shutdown and $134 million in restructuring charges related to our synergy initiatives. In light of the ongoing COVID pandemic, we achieved solid results in Q2 2020. Total company revenue was $6.28 billion, down 12% year-over-year. Adjusted OIBDA was $1.69 billion, up 8% year-over-year, and adjusted EPS was $1.25. Adjusted free cash flow was a strong $892 million in the quarter, which excludes $178 million of restructuring and merger-related payments. Looking more closely at our revenue performance in the quarter, affiliate revenue increased 2%, benefiting from strong retrans, reverse comp and subscription streaming revenue growth, which more than offset the decline in cable network affiliate revenue. Cable network affiliate revenue declined 6% in Q2, in line with the decline in Q1 2020. Advertising revenue was down 27% versus a year ago, overwhelmingly affected by COVID-19, which resulted in a significant pullback by advertisers. The comparison to the NCAA championship and Final Four games in the year ago period resulted in a 4-point headwind in the quarter. Domestic streaming and digital video revenue, which includes subscription and digital video advertising revenue, was up 25% versus a year ago to $489 million. Q2 benefited from significant growth in sign-ups and streams on CBS All Access and Showtime OTT and in monthly active users and minutes viewed on Pluto. Domestic streaming subscription revenue was up 52% in the second quarter, accelerating from the rate of growth in the first quarter driven by the continued momentum we are experiencing across all of our streaming products. Turning to content licensing. Revenue was comparable with the prior year. Revenue associated with the licensing of South Park was offset by significant licensing activity in the year ago quarter as well as the timing of deliveries, which have been affected by COVID-related production delays. Theatrical revenue was immaterial in the quarter as most theaters remain closed in the U.S. and internationally. For Publishing, revenue declined 8%. Strong growth in digital book and audio sales was more than offset by declines in print sales. These titles in the quarter included John Boltons The Room Where It Happened and Stephen Kings If It Bleeds. On the expense front, we are highly focused on strategically reducing our costs. We continue to benefit from merger-related cost synergies in the second quarter and are on track to realize $300 million in savings for the full year of 2020 before consideration of onetime costs to achieve them, up from our previous expectation of $250 million. In addition, we are benefiting from COVID-related cost savings, which helped offset the impact of revenue declines and drove adjusted OIBDA growth in the quarter. A portion of these cost savings are timing related and will come back as we return to live sports and production. However, we expect to realize sustainable cost savings as we take learnings from this crisis and find ways to operate more efficiently over the long term. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call In addition, we now expect to achieve $800 million in annualized merger-related cost synergies by the end of 2022, up from our prior $750 million target as we remain highly disciplined in managing our costs. Overall, we are very pleased with ViacomCBS results in the second quarter of 2020. Turning to the balance sheet and ViacomCBS liquidity. In the second quarter, we completed 2 debt transactions totaling $4.5 billion. We used the proceeds to pay down $2.8 billion of our upcoming maturities, including a $340 million redemption that settled on July 10. And we added $1.7 billion to our cash balance, providing us with additional liquidity. These transactions significantly strengthen the financial position of the company, enabling us to effectively weather the current economic uncertainty. We now have no debt maturities until 2022. And in addition to our cash balance, we have our $3.5 billion revolving credit facility, which remains undrawn. As of June 30, 2020, when you take into account the benefit of our full run rate merger-related cost synergies, our debt-to-adjusted OIBDA ratio calculates to 3.3x. On a net basis, taking into consideration our $2.3 billion cash balance as of June 30, our leverage ratio is 2.9x, unchanged from the end of 2019. We remain committed to our 2.75x leverage target, including the benefit of full run rate synergies, and plan to use cash on hand, proceeds from our noncore asset sales as well as excess cash flow after dividend payments to reduce our debt balance in order to achieve our leverage target. I would now like to provide you with some insights on the remainder of the year. Starting with affiliate revenue. As Bob discussed, we had an impressive quarter for distribution, with several new agreements secured, including Verizon, YouTube TV, DISH, Sling TV, Sinclair and Cox. And as Bob mentioned, we now forecast domestic streaming subscribers to reach 18 million by year-end 2020, up from our previous 16 million expectations, which we have achieved ahead of plan. While we expect to be affected by industry pay TV subscriber trends, we will benefit from our recent affiliate deal, increased distribution on YouTube and the strong growth we are experiencing across our subscription streaming platforms. Taken together, we expect the year-over-year rate of change in domestic cable network affiliate revenue and total company affiliate revenue to improve in Q3 and again in Q4. Moving to advertising. We believe Q2 marked the bottom in the year-over-year rate of change in total company advertising revenue and expect to see sequential improvement in the year-over-year rate of change in advertising revenue in Q3 and again in Q4. A few other things to note for the third quarter and adjusted free cash flow in the back half of the year. First, on content licensing revenue. We expect COVID-related production delays will continue to affect content licensing deliveries in the third quarter. Second, on theatrical revenue. We have no movies scheduled to be released in the third quarter as we are saving valuable IP to be released in the theatrical window. That said, we strategically decided to deploy The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run through the relaunch of our super service in early 2021. And third, on adjusted free cash flow. We had a strong Q2. Our free cash flow benefited from disciplined COVID-related expense management, which will continue to positively impact cash in the balance of the year given the natural lag between expenses and cash. In addition, our free cash flow benefited significantly from the delay in the timing of production. As we get back to production, spend will return, impacting free cash flow in the second half of the year. Looking beyond this year, we are laser-focused on optimizing working capital for ViacomCBS, which will drive improved free cash flow in 2021 and beyond. In closing, the first half results of the united ViacomCBS have many proof points of tremendous momentum that will benefit the company over the long term. Although COVID-19 has affected our short-term revenue trends, we remain focused on ensuring that we optimize our cost structure and investment strategy to maximize revenue growth and financial performance for the long term. On a personal note, it has been a true honor to be a part of the ViacomCBS team during the past 23 years. To Shari, Bob, the Board of Directors and Naveen, I wish you much continued success as you lead this phenomenal company. To me, the company is really all of our talented people. So to the entire ViacomCBS team, I wish you the very best for the future. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Lastly, I would like to commend and thank the amazing finance team of ViacomCBS. You are second to none, and I am most proud of all that we have accomplished together. With that, we can open the line for questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan. Alexia Skouras Quadrani - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst My first question -- or my main question is on the advertising. If you could give us a bit more detail about how it progressed through the second quarter with respect to your platforms, really looking from your linear cable networks all the way to AVOD, how it differed, I guess, throughout the second quarter on those platforms. But I think you said June was better, but Im curious if you have any early thoughts on July, if that improvement continued. And then my follow-up is just on Paramount, just really regarding the shortening window, theatrical windows, and the agreement that we saw between AMC and Universal. Are you looking to reach sort of similar agreements for Paramount? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. Alexia, nice to hear your voice. So on advertising, let me reiterate that we believe Q2 is the bottom, and we expect to see continued sequential improvement in the rate of change in Q3 and again in Q4. With that, let me say a couple things to add some additional color. First, our total company advertising, obviously down in the quarter, and that was, as you heard, overwhelmingly and not surprisingly due to COVID. Beyond COVID, there is some lack of comparability to prior year, and that specifically is because we had the NCAA championship and Final Four game in 2019, but Turner would have had that this year. So thats worth about 400 basis points if youre doing math. Second, and really more to your question, the quarter turned out better than we thought early. And that was because we did see sequential improvement in each month of the quarter and simultaneously because scatter pricing held strong, 25%, really greater than that versus the upfront. The softness we did see is very concentrated in terms of categories. But at the same time, we saw some early signs of strength from some others, notably pharma, insurance and financial. And to the other specific question you asked, segments have been impacted differently. So broadcast in the mix is relatively strong. Cables seen more relative softness. But in the cable side, we did take the opportunity to produce ad loads to improve the experience. Local has also been tough, but things are getting better. In particular, autos coming back in Q3 as factories have reopened, and we continue to look forward to political being a significant driver in the second half. Digital also was impacted, but high-quality digital remains super strong. In fact, Pluto TV quickly returned to pre-pandemic growth rates and pricing and was very strong in Q2. So we like what were seeing in terms of green shoots and look to continue to see that momentum. On the Paramount side, let me start by saying that while the studio was obviously unable to release films in the quarter due to COVID, it is an incredible asset to ViacomCBS. It has a powerful collection of IP, which we continue to develop for film, TV and streaming purposes. Its got a massive library, which benefits our networks and more recently, our streaming services. And its library is obviously a critical component of our licensing business. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call In this COVID time, which is really a time where theaters are shut down, we are focused on protecting asset value and really benefiting from optionality that our company and this environment presents. And thats driven us to do a number of things. First, we do continue to move films later to save them for what we believe will be a healthier environment in 21. You saw us do that most recently with A Quiet Place Part II and Top Gun: Maverick. Weve also monetized some films, yes, with streamers, which allows us to get a return on our investment now. But importantly, it allows us to avoid putting even more product into a 21 thats starting to look pretty full. You saw that with Lovebirds as an example. We also decided to use a film franchise strategically, and thats deploying SpongeBob: Sponge on the Run exclusively in the U.S. against our super service relaunch in early 21 after a short PVOD window. And then to your questions about PVOD, we really are in sort of a COVID rules phase of the business right now, where studios, including Paramount, are doing some things they wouldnt normally do because theaters are closed. Know we remain committed to theatrical and believe a lot of this reverts once the world normalizes. But we do believe the actual windows will probably shorten, and some of these new monetization paths, including both strategic ones and others, probably will become more confident. But as I look at the whole thing, it continues to make me highly confident that despite COVID, Paramount is incredibly valuable to us, both strategically and financially. Operator Our next question comes from the line of Michael Morris with Guggenheim Securities. Michael C. Morris - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst I have one on streaming and then one on margins and costs. First, on streaming, streaming TV, connected TV, advertising clearly have strong secular growth. Youre investing into it with All Access and Pluto. But its also a pretty complicated and fragmented market for advertisers. So Bob, Id love to hear your thoughts on how you see that developing, how products like EyeQ gives CBS an advantage -- ViacomCBS an advantage and why advertisers are spending with you rather than, say, a platform like an Amazon Fire or Roku TV. And then second, just on costs. Theres a number of puts and takes as we look forward with the synergies and timing. But as you go through this transition and invest in this transition to streaming, can you talk about how we should think about margins for the business maybe into the sort of like launch period, and then over the longer term, if this is margin-expanding initiative? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Michael. Thanks. So look, I couldnt be happier that we acquired Pluto TV last year. When we announced that acquisition, the market was confused. Most people didnt know what it was. Since then, AVOD, or now what people call FAST, has been accepted as a legitimate and important part of the streaming ecosystem, and others have followed us. But we havent let up, not even close, like we leaned into its content, into enhancing the platform, into expanding distribution, into building the brand and into monetizing its ad inventory and most recently, global expansion. And as a result, weve grown Pluto TV dramatically and arguably extended our leadership position. The reality is no other U.S. FAST asset can touch the combination of Plutos 100,000-plus hours of high-quality content, which we built through a combination of assets we own and these innovative revenue share-based models that we use with third parties. Its on over 30 devices and platforms. You name it. If its significant, Plutos there. Were rapidly expanding the distribution. We talked about these 80 million devices that are coming through new partnerships with Verizon, TiVo and LG not only adds to the expansive base were already building through Amazon, Roku, Comcast, Viveo and more. And many of those have 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call preferred placement and/or built-in carriage. And by the way, we got more deals coming in the pipeline, which is going to take these numbers up higher. Importantly, were -- to the ad question, were rapidly monetizing it. Pluto TV benefits both from programmatic flow and from direct ViacomCBS ad relationships. As a result, that business has grown dramatically. And as I said, its bounced back to pre-COVID growth levels already. And now were building an integrated ecosystem where Plutos platform will feed our pay offerings. Now to your question on EyeQ, its worth noting that Pluto TV is really a cornerstone of EyeQ, which, for those of you that missed it, we announced this week. EyeQ is a new ad platform, which will reach premium viewing audiences across the ViacomCBS portfolio. And here, were talking about over 50 million monthly full episode users. So super high-quality advertising base. And by the way, to your question on why buy from us versus other people, you will only be able to buy that product direct from ViacomCBS. So were -- in addition to being a broader solution provider, which, of course, we are, in this video space, weve really taken the next step in providing turnkey access to high-quality product to solve advertisers problems. And thats just another example of the power of ViacomCBS in the ad marketplace. On the cost side, I think your costs were largely, if not fully, related to the impact of streaming and scaling that service. So on investment, I guess, a couple of points. One is we have very significant amount of content that weve already invested in across the company that we can deploy against the asset, and you saw us do that -- some last week in the preview launch. Second thing Id say is we understand the math of content investment. On CBS All Access alone, we have 5 years of LTV data, which we use to drive content decision-making, what we commission, what we renew, et cetera. And third, were obviously leveraging live events and sports, which we already have that are a real driver of subscribers and usage of service in our experience. Now as the original slate grows over time and gets comprehensive across the full suite of brands, there will be some increase in cash content investment. However, we do intend to fund that as the mix shift from lower-growth areas. And remember, were also going to be benefiting from a larger subscriber base, which will generate even more revenue and help fund it. Lastly, Id say we are going to market this in 2021 as part of a relaunch. But again, here, well significantly benefit from the power of our existing media assets and the appeal of our IP, including in social. So again, this is -- its going to be ultimately additive to our financials, and well track through. Christina Spade - ViacomCBS Inc. - Financial Advisor Its Chris. The other thing Ill add about the cost management is were 2 quarters into the combined ViacomCBS, which is a powerhouse to manage all the costs across the company. So were highly focused on strategically managing them all, and we will continue to prioritize investment in streaming and studio production. And given that were now combined and we have a lot more experience understanding whats under every rock of cost, cost savings will continue and we will find more. Operator Our next question comes from the line of Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Bob and Chris, I know its too early to sort of hone in on 2021 free cash flow. But Im wondering if you could just help us think about cash content spend this year. And any help in thinking about what its going to mean to sort of resume production as the COVID restrictions lift, hopefully, and 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call things return back to normal heading into next year? Just anything you can do to help us think about cash content spend this year and into next year. And then I wanted to ask you, as you think about the super service and evolving All Access, sports is obviously something that is a huge driver of consumption and pricing power. I think you guys have a unique opportunity already in how you use sports and All Access, but thats something youre certainly leaning into. Can you just talk about your sports strategy on All Access and how you think about leveraging sports content on streaming versus linear and sort of the trade-offs of that strategic decision? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure. So youre right, its too early to provide 2021 guidance, and were not going to do that. But I will say with respect to your question on return to production, which obviously is critical, particularly when you get to a cash basis, you saw our very strong cash flow delivery in Q2, close to $900 million on an adjusted basis. Certainly, that number benefited from working capital implications of our sort of production, Id say, radical decline. Its not totally shut down but certainly radically declined. And you should expect that as we move forward in Q3 but more likely Q4 at scale, that, that working cap benefit begins to go the other way a bit. And just to give you a little more color on the return to production because I think its a topic everyone is interested in, we are currently executing a multifaceted return to production. Obviously, were focused on health and safety of all involved in front of and behind the screen. And we have a real commitment to evolving approaches, locations, even story lines, to deliver that fresh product to customer and, ultimately, the consumer needs on a timely basis. And as we do that, by the way, we are finding some ways that we can operate less expensively. Weve learned a lot through this COVID phase from the productions that are on. And were rolling that through -- whether its entertainment or sports, and were rolling that through. We are dealing with all this through a centrally managed process so we can ensure application of best practices, mitigate risk, and we have the whole portfolio going through it. That has led us to having a whole bunch of fresh content on or coming to air shortly, unscripted, like Big Brother, which is on air now. Were shooting Love Island in a hotel in Vegas where the cast and crew are actually quarantined together. That will air later this month. Daytime soaps are back in production. In late night, Colbert and Corden are scheduled to return to their buildings next week, albeit without audiences. Animation production continues to move forward. And by the way, I dont know how many of you saw it, but we made a series of announcements that were picked up last week about our path in adult animation. And thats really a building area of activity for us that Im super excited about. On the scripted side, we have a whole set of things in motion. We do have scripts on all series. We are putting shows through the restart process I mentioned. Our third-party production studios are also beginning to move forward. And we got a range of contingency plans in place, which include additional unscripted library movies and some other things. So a lot of options here as we work to serve consumers and customers. To the cash flow point in particular, I think you should expect Q3, theres more production spend. In Q4, it builds there. And then well transition into 2021. Christina Spade - ViacomCBS Inc. - Financial Advisor I would also add to that, that conceptually, we do still believe for now and the long term, the key drivers of free cash flow improvement are cost optimization, working capital efficiency and our continued focus on further revenue monetization. Operator Our next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman with Goldman Sachs. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst So during your prepared remarks, you talked about plans to release originals on the new All Access, enhanced All Access product, spanning all of your key brands. I was hoping you could just elaborate, give us a little more insight into what that output is going to look like over maybe the next 12 or 24 months, particularly as your ability to resume full production comes back. And then just on the same content side of things, when we look at your TV library and All Access, it stacks up incredibly well versus other streaming products. You tend to be a little more focused with your film portfolio. So I was hoping you can maybe just discuss the importance of movies to the enhanced product and whether theres an opportunity to be a little more differentiated there, particularly in light of the fact that you own a movie studio. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Thanks, Brett. Let me take that from the angle of the overall -- where were going with the overall super service, and Ill deal with each of your questions within that. So our guiding objective for a super service is to have a broad differentiated product at a compelling price point. And to get a real sense of that, take a good look at the preview launch we did last week where we materially broadened CBS All Access. The entertainment offering is now far wider. We added 3,500 episodes from 70 series from our flagship brands. It unquestionably widens the demographic appeal because we now have a real offering for kids, young adults, millennials and more. And look at the sports offering, now including UEFA. In fact, if you look at the collection of football, basketball, golf, soccer and more on the platform, we really are the first that have taken sports over the top in a meaningful way. And we believe theres real appeal here as part of a broad streaming service. We obviously have events like the GRAMMYs, the Tonys, the Super Bowl. Theres news, which is something people need these days, or maybe not, I dont know. And then there are originals, to your other part of your question. Today, All Access has a baseline of compelling originals, shows like Star Trek: Picard, Discovery and now Lower Decks, which is animated, The Good Fight, Twilight Zone and The Stand. Starting in 21, that slate will greatly expand to include all flagship brands. And as an indicator, really a taste, we announced last week that Kamp Koral, which is a SpongeBob spin-off, will join the super service as the first Nickelodeon original. And that will be on the back of the exclusive availability of the latest SpongeBob film, Sponge on the Run. So thats the kind of way were using franchises. We have an original plan that goes through 22 quarterly. And Im super excited about it, and youre going to hear more about that at another time. But that gives you a sense. The originals are going to be important, and theyre going to be defining as well as the sports. Operator Our next question comes from the line of Rich Greenfield with LightShed Partners. Richard Scott Greenfield - LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst When you -- it was reported the other day that you and the team from CBS Sports were up in New England meeting with the NFL to talk about the next round of media rights. I think sort of everyone has talked about, not just on your call but on multiple calls, sort of the importance of the NFL specifically. And if the AAV of the contract moves from sort of around 1 billion upwards towards 2 billion a year, your subscribers -- and this is not a Viacom issue, this is an industry issue, subscribers will have dropped from mid-90s into somewhere probably in the 60s by the time you get to the next contract. How do you think about the return on investment of the NFL? Like how does anyone essentially stay in the NFL business as subs 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call are falling with the cost of the content going up so much? Like just how do you frame it? Or how do you think about it? Maybe how does CBS All Access or the new super service fit into the equation? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Rich, sure. So Im not going to get into commenting specifically on press speculation, but what I will say is we value the NFL and the partnership. Were long-standing partners, and that relationship has been a mutually beneficial one. And as ViacomCBS, were even better positioned to drive value for the league and for ourselves. And to that end, its important that you understand, as ViacomCBS, we have many monetization vectors for the NFL rights. Obviously, affiliate revenue, advertising, to your point, streaming, and thats both subscription streaming and ad-supported streaming, and potentially international revenue. So theres a lot of ways we can go here. And I am very confident that the partnership will continue to deliver value for both sides as it has for decades. Operator Our final question this morning comes from the line of Michael Nathanson with MoffettNathanson. Michael Brian Nathanson - MoffettNathanson LLC - Founding Partner & Senior Research Analyst Ill keep it easy, Bob. I want to ask you about international, the pay services coming in 2021. Can you talk a little bit about how youre thinking about maybe the pricing points, whether or not it will be an AVOD, SVOD hybrid like All Access? And will there be any like foregoing content licensing to launch this business in these markets? So just give us -- I know its early, but any kind of piece you can about how youre thinking about the structure of these new services. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Michael. So streaming is clearly a global opportunity. And for ViacomCBS, we believe, obviously, as part of that, theres substantial international opportunity. We believe thats true both in free and pay. You look at our global operating footprint, which includes our linear reach, the content we own, including local content, on-the-ground resources and relationships, we really see that as a powerful go-to-market advantage and feel were well positioned to succeed. You look at where we are today on the free side, were already in Europe and Latin America, Spanish-speaking Latin America with Pluto. Weve seen very strong growth to date, particularly in Latin America, which weve only been there a couple of months. We do have almost 7 million international MAUs, 33 million global. And we got -- were just getting going there. We got plans to enhance our product, expanding our channel lineup. Were adding a bunch of distribution partners. We will enter Brazil and Spain later this year, France and Italy in early 21. So theres real growth ahead. And obviously, were thinking about other things from Pluto as well. On the pay side, were targeting early 21 for the launch of our international streaming service. The exact product details and pricing, which we havent announced, will vary by individual markets. But broadly speaking, the new service will feature exclusive first-run premier. So were going to get those from the slate were using with CBS All Access in the U.S., from Showtime and from Viacom International Studios. And alongside that, well use Paramount movies, box sets from CBS and Viacom media networks. If you want to just compare it at a high level to what were doing in the U.S., it will be a much more entertainment-focused product. It doesnt really have a sports -- a material sports lane to it. And it will have an output deal from Showtime because we dont operate Showtime networks outside 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call the United States. We will be rolling it in multiple markets next year, including Australia, Latin America and the Nordics. Youll probably see some press about that. But were really excited about the opportunity. And again, this is another place where the power of ViacomCBS is really going to show through, the power of the combination of content, the power of the international footprint we have thats really differentiated from others. So look, thanks, everyone, for making time in this COVID day coming to us probably from your home. Id sum it up to say despite the COVID-19 headwinds, we did deliver another solid quarter, reaffirming the strength and optionality of our combined operations. Were executing against key objectives and pushing ViacomCBS to emerge stronger. As you see, the key earnings and cash flow metrics improved sequentially as we continue to make progress on our integration, and we are now nicely ahead of our run rate and 2020 merger-related cost synergies that we committed to. Our deal-making and execution is underscoring the benefits of our increased scale. And that, obviously, you see in the significant distribution agreements we struck with Verizon, YouTube and others. And importantly, were ahead of schedule in building our streaming business. Pluto TV is really cranking, and were progressively moving towards the relaunch of our diversified super service early next year. And by the way, we just debuted our latest original Star Trek: Lower Decks on CBS All Access. Its a great piece of adult animation. I hope you all go and check it out. And lastly, to the employees of ViacomCBS, I want to thank you for your amazing passion, dedication and tenacity at this challenging point in time. Youre all making a difference helping drive our company forward. So thanks again for your time today and stay well. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Thanks, everyone, for joining us. Have a great day. Operator Thank you. This concludes todays conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13266809-2020-10-21T08:15:11.330 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 06, 2020 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call"
"Paramount";"Earnings Transcript";"REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call EVENT DATE/TIME: NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM GMT OVERVIEW: Co. reported 3Q20 total Co. revenue of $6.1b and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.91. REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Anthony Joseph DiClemente ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Naveen Chopra ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Robert Marc Bakish ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Alexia Skouras Quadrani JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Benjamin Daniel Swinburne Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Brett Joseph Feldman Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Douglas David Mitchelson Crédit Suisse AG, Research Division - MD Jessica Jean Reif Ehrlich BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - MD in Equity Research John Christopher Hodulik UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD, Sector Head of the United States Communications Group and Telco & Pay TV Analyst Michael C. Morris Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Richard Scott Greenfield LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Good day, everyone, and welcome to the ViacomCBS Third Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. Todays call is being recorded. At this time, Id like to turn the call over to Executive Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Anthony DiClemente. Please go ahead, sir. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Good morning, everyone. Thank you for taking the time to be with us for our third quarter 2020 earnings call. Joining me for todays discussion are Bob Bakish, our President and CEO; and Naveen Chopra, our CFO. Please note that in addition to our earnings release, we have trending schedules containing supplemental information available on our website. We also have a slide presentation for you to follow along with our remarks. I want to refer you to the second slide in the presentation and remind you that certain statements made on this call are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in more detail in our filings with the SEC. Todays remarks will focus on adjusted results. Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information discussed on this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website. Now I will turn the call over to Bob. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. On todays call, Ill cover 3 key topics: first, how weve unlocked the power of a combined ViacomCBS in the year since weve merged; second, how our third quarter results demonstrate the companys building momentum; and third, how were focused on achieving growth in the short and long term by aggressively leaning into streaming. Ill then hand it over to Naveen Chopra, who Im pleased to welcome to his first earnings call as ViacomCBSs CFO. Naveen will give you his early perspective on the company as well as a detailed financial commentary on Q3. Following that, well take your questions. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Okay. So first off, its been almost a year since the ViacomCBS merger closed, and Im thrilled with the way our organization has come together to create value from the combined asset base. In fact, despite the challenges presented by the world around us, our companys transformation is ahead of schedule, and weve moved quickly to realize the power of the ViacomCBS combination, by establishing a best-in-class management team, including, most recently, through the creation of a new consolidated streaming organization; by accelerating our strategy and execution across pay and free streaming; driving growth in subscribers, monthly active users and revenue. Were also unlocking more value in distribution by expanding our footprint through cross-company renewals and new deals and simultaneously strengthening our positioning in advertising by bringing to bear the power of our combined portfolio and capabilities, all while improving operational efficiency and exceeding the cost synergies we promised when we announced the transaction. Weve accomplished a lot in a short amount of time, and were just getting going. Second, let me turn to the quarters financial and operating results. ViacomCBSs Q3 reflects the continuation and acceleration of a strategy that is clearly working, even as we navigate through the pandemic. To that end, importantly, during the quarter, we saw improving top line trends across affiliate, advertising and domestic streaming and digital video revenue. In affiliate, revenue grew 10% in the quarter, marking a significant improvement versus Q2. This improvement was fueled by strong growth in subscription streaming revenue as well as higher reverse comp and retransmission fees. It was also fueled by a return to growth in domestic cable affiliate revenue, which saw a 10 percentage point improvement in growth rate versus Q2. Advertising revenue also improved dramatically versus what we saw in Q2 with the rate of decline slowing to 6%. Improvements were seen across the board in broadcast, cable, sports, national, local, digital and international. And the scatter market was robust with strong activity across key categories. Speaking of categories, weve also seen certain COVID-impacted industries like auto and retail gradually return, which reflects improvement in the economy and the significant value our portfolio brings to advertisers to drive their own business recovery. Importantly, as we look forward, the return of CBS stable fall schedule is upon us with several scripted series already on air and more premier dates coming up. Add to that the NFL, the FCC and the Masters. Our content position is strong. This dynamic, paired with a successful upfront and the hot political category, should provide further benefit in the fourth quarter. Overall, were encouraged by what were seeing and big-picture advertising is certainly moving in the right direction. The commercial momentum of ViacomCBS is clear, and it is underpinned by the durable strength of our brands and IP. CBS was once again the most watched network across prime time, daytime and late night during the 2019-2020 broadcast year. We maintained our leadership in key demos as the #1 cable portfolio for share of viewing, and we owned more top 30 cable networks than any other media family. Internationally, our linear share of viewing increased for a third consecutive quarter. And for the second quarter in a row, Tubular Labs ranked ViacomCBS the #1 media and entertainment company in social, reinforcing the popularity and relevance of our brands and IP in the digital space. The strength of ViacomCBS foundation in content, franchise IP and audience reach is an important competitive advantage, including as a growth accelerant for our streaming business, where we had another great quarter. To that end, ViacomCBS grew domestic streaming and digital video revenue by 56% in Q3, up from 25% in Q2, reflecting the real momentum in usage and monetization in our pay and free streaming products, something were aggressively leaning into. Let me unpack this a bit. In pay, we ended the quarter with 17.9 million domestic subscribers, up 72% year-on-year, which basically puts us just under the raised year-end guidance we issued last quarter, where we took it up from 16 million to 18 million subs. And both CBS All Access and Showtime OTT each had robust consumption growth in sign-ups. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Starting with All Access. The service benefited from strong demand for sports like UEFA and the NFL, originals like Star Trek Lower Decks and CBS network content like Big Brother and Love Island; as well from the 3,500 library episodes added from Nickelodeon, BET, Comedy Central, MTV and Smithsonian; plus the almost 200 films from Paramount that we added in late July as part of our preview launch. CBS All Access is now in the early stages of benefiting from the power of the combined company, and theres much more to come. More on that in a bit. And Showtime OTT had a strong quarter as well driven by the trifecta of original programming, including The Chi, Billions, the final season of Homeland, all of which drove strong adoption and engagement. Our momentum in pay streaming is driven by the combination of compelling content and ubiquitous distribution. On the distribution side, the latest example is the All Access and Showtime streaming bundle we recently began offering through Apple TV+, which follows our recent Amazon renewal. We have a lot going on here. And the combination of compelling content in ubiquitous distribution is clearly working, as evidenced by ViacomCBS subscription streaming revenue growth accelerating to 78% in Q3 from Q2s 52%. On the free side, Pluto TV continues to build on its position as the #1 fast, free, ad-supported streaming television service in the United States. In the quarter, Pluto TVs domestic MAUs grew 57% to 28.4 million and globally grew to nearly 36 million MAUs. On top of that, Plutos ad monetization has been growing rapidly, and the trend line is compelling. Consider this. After logging its first $1 million ad sales day in 2019, it took Pluto 10 months to log its first $2 million ad sales day. But it just took 1 month after that for Pluto TV to achieve its first $3 million day. While this shouldnt be interpreted as a daily run rate, we are seeing revenue inflection at Pluto TV in a most positive way. The trajectory is extremely exciting. And we remain confident that Pluto will meet or exceed its 30 million domestic MAU target by year-end, bolstered by the fact that we continue to add even more high-quality content to the market-leading service. In fact, in the U.S., Pluto now has well over 100,000 hours of compelling content available to consumers. We recently added 9 ViacomCBS channels, including Star Trek, Bellator, CBSN Dallas and CSI. And of course, we continue to add a broad range of compelling third-party content. As an example, in October, Narcos began streaming on Pluto TV, marking the first time the series will be widely available to U.S. streaming viewers without a Netflix subscription. We also ramped up Plutos TVs distribution across multiple devices and services, including new distribution agreements with LG and Sony PlayStation, extending Pluto TV reach to well over 100 million additional devices worldwide. Whats even more exciting is were an official launch partner of the highly anticipated PlayStation 5 console debuting in mid-November. Outside the U.S., Pluto TV is expanding rapidly and seeing strong adoption as well, especially in Latin America. And last month, we launched Pluto TV in Spain with 40 thematic and uniquely curated channels across multiple genres. In fact, during the first week of launch in Spain, Pluto TV was the #1 downloaded app for Android devices. Looking ahead, we plan to bring new local versions of Pluto TV to other priority markets, including Brazil this year and France and Italy in 2021. Importantly, these are all markets where ViacomCBS has strong local operations, including a large pipeline of local language content in place and ready to go. The world is quickly embracing fast, which is why Pluto TVs leadership and growth is a key component of our streaming strategy. And remember, as we progressively build out a linked ecosystem, Pluto will also serve as a gateway to and funnel for our pay services. So there was a lot to be excited about for ViacomCBS in Q3 in the streaming space, and Im even more excited about where were going. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Here, I want to touch on a few items. First, consistent with our strategy to maximize our position in assets across both pay and free, in mid-October, we announced the creation of a new consolidated streaming organization. Tom Ryan, the Co-Founder and CEO of Pluto TV, has assumed the role of President and CEO of ViacomCBS Streaming, overseeing Paramount Plus and Pluto TV. In this expanded role, Tom will drive our strategic execution globally as we create a progressively integrated streaming ecosystem across pay and free. Toms entrepreneurial drive, deep knowledge in over-the-top, his focus on the consumer experience and demonstrated ability to work effectively across our company make him ideally suited to lead this next leg of our streaming journey. A second item I want to touch on is Paramount Plus, which is on track to debut in early 2021. As you know, Paramount Plus will combine live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment, including exclusive original content plus a diverse and deep library of shows and movies, spanning all programming genres from ViacomCBSs leading brands in one unified service. Here, despite the challenges of COVID, our original programming plans continue to advance. And we will have a deep roster of original series that leans heavily on our franchises, including THE OFFER, a scripted limited series that will tell the incredible story behind the making of The Godfather, one of Paramount Pictures most iconic franchises; a new addition of Behind The Music, a truly iconic music series; REAL CRIMINAL MINDS, a true crime docuseries spinning out of CBS Criminal Minds; KAMP koral, a new original childrens series from Nickelodeons SpongeBob SquarePants, which we will release after the new SpongeBob movie, SPONGE ON THE RUN, and will be exclusive to Paramount Plus; and we also have new original content, including LIONESS, a new series from the creator of Yellowstone. We will, of course, have more original programming to announce as we get closer to launch. As we get into 21, we see substantial incremental growth ahead. Our preview launch at the end of July served as a proof of concept, and that gives us the confidence to lean into streaming even more. Were executing a plan which will bring more content, more marketing and more distribution to the table. Paramount Plus with its live sports, breaking news and mountain of entertainment, together with Pluto TV in the free space and Showtime OTT in premium, will take ViacomCBS Streaming to a whole new level. This is certainly an exciting time for our company, and Im so glad that Naveen Chopra has joined us for the next leg of our journey. Since early August, hes truly hit the ground running. Hes brought a fresh and valuable perspective to ViacomCBS, especially as we gear up for our launch of Paramount Plus early next year. With that, Ill hand it over to Naveen to provide his thoughts as well as additional financial detail on the quarter. Naveen? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Thank you, Bob, and good morning, everyone. Im excited to be here for my first ViacomCBS earnings call. It has now been 3 months since I joined the company. I was initially drawn to ViacomCBS because of its strong position in the media industry. Having now had some time to listen and learn, I find myself even more bullish about our future and our ability to create long-term value for ViacomCBS shareholders by leveraging the scale of our brands, content and distribution. Thus far, ViacomCBS has exceeded my expectations in several respects. The company has moved quickly and effectively to capture synergies from the merger, has successfully found ways to enhance both the financial and strategic value of its traditional media businesses and has an even stronger presence in streaming than people recognize, all of which are demonstrated in our Q3 results. I am particularly inspired by the opportunities we have in streaming, where the addressable market is expansive and growing, both domestically and globally. In addition, the value of the users of our largest pay streaming services continues to increase, driven in part by favorable trends in underlying churn and growth in engagement. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Similarly, in free ad-supported streaming, Pluto TV is not only rapidly growing MAUs and total viewing hours, but it is seeing a significant mix shift to consumption on higher-value connected TV platforms and material growth in monetization with plenty of room to grow in sell-through and CPMs. Im also emboldened by the fact that we have the rare DNA to produce world-class content at scale, including for the streaming generation, from original programming like Billions or Yellowstone to unscripted like MTVs The Challenge; to kids programming like PAW Patrol or SpongeBob; and of course, iconic movie franchises such as Top Gun and The Godfather, ViacomCBS content has proven to be a powerful audience magnet on both our owned and third-party platforms. And I consider this pipeline of content, regardless of where it is distributed, a tremendous asset that we can optimally allocate to support our overall strategy. And I share with you that this depth of content production capability is quite rare. Both the content assets themselves and the ability to create them are scarce, valuable, and they are the envy of some of the largest technology and media players in the industry. So while the competitive environment is intense and requires sharp execution to achieve our streaming ambitions, I am encouraged by the progress we have made, and together with industry trends, believe pay and free streaming will yield compelling ROI, consistent with our goal of creating long-term shareholder value. Now let me take you through some of the highlights of our third quarter results. Total company revenue was $6.1 billion, down 9% year-over-year. Adjusted OIBDA was $1.1 billion, down 12% year-over-year. And adjusted diluted EPS was $0.91. Ill provide some additional details on revenue in a moment. But as you would expect, the year-over-year trend in total company revenue represents significant pandemic-related effects on advertising sales, content licensing and theatrical revenues. Compared to the year-ago quarter, adjusted OIBDA declined driven by lower revenue, somewhat offset by lower costs principally associated with delays in production expense. Q3 adjusted free cash flow was very strong at $1.5 billion, largely because production activity remained limited throughout most of the quarter, resulting in a significant working capital benefit. As a reminder, adjusted free cash flow excludes $164 million of payments for restructuring, merger-related costs and costs to achieve synergies. Looking more closely at our revenue performance in the quarter. Domestic streaming and digital video revenue grew 56% versus the year ago period to $636 million, owing to significant growth in sign-ups across CBS All Access and Showtime OTT and very strong growth in monthly active users and minutes viewed on Pluto. Domestic subscription streaming revenue grew 78% in Q3, an acceleration from 52% in Q2, driven by the continued momentum we are seeing across our subscription services. And on the ad-supported side, digital video advertising revenue also experienced a strong recovery versus Q2. Pluto TV was a key contributor to this recovery. In fact, growth at Pluto TV accelerated materially from Q2 with revenue more than doubling from the year-ago period. In aggregate, our domestic streaming and digital video revenue is now pacing at an annual run rate north of $2.5 billion and growing over 50% year-on-year as of Q3. Streaming momentum also benefited affiliate revenue, which grew 10% year-on-year in Q3 versus 2% in Q2. The growth in total company affiliate revenue was driven by growth in streaming subscription revenue and distribution renewals, which included incremental carriage and improved economics. Domestic cable affiliate revenue grew 4% year-over-year in Q3 versus a decline of 6% in Q2 and grew year-on-year even excluding the growth of Showtime OTT. In addition, TV entertainment affiliate revenue grew 25% in Q3, an acceleration versus 22% in Q2, driven by strong growth in streaming subscription revenue and retrans feed and reverse comp, which also benefited from renewal activity in the quarter. Advertising revenue was down 6% year-over-year, reflecting continued COVID-19 headwinds. However, the Q3 growth rate was a significant improvement relative to the year-over-year decline we experienced in Q2. The improvement in advertising trends has been broad based across broadcast and cable, but we are especially encouraged by the increasing contribution from the inventory included in EyeQ. As a reminder, the 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call EyeQ platform provides advertisers a single transactional point of entry to our digital video content advertising inventory and includes not only digital video advertising revenue from Pluto TV, but full episode inventory from our other ViacomCBS networks. The recovery in Q3 also benefited from improvement in scatter pricing, owing to firming marketplace demand. In terms of key categories, pharma remains strong and weve seen improvements in automotive, financial services and retail. And as expected, political spend was very robust in Q3. Turning to content licensing. Q3 revenue was down 33% year-over-year, reflecting a lower volume of licensing due to COVID-related production delays and several licensed programs reaching series-end in the year-ago period. As you know, licensing revenue is inherently lumpy as evidenced by the licensing of South Park earlier this year, which contributed a significant amount of revenue and adjusted OIBDA in Q2. So while content licensing will be a part of our strategy going forward, we do not expect to replicate a deal of this size and nature in 2021. Theatrical revenue was immaterial in the quarter as most theaters remain closed. But we have found ways to mitigate the near-term loss of theatrical revenue through alternate monetization strategies, including early EST, PVOD and licensing select titles to streaming platforms. And finally, publishing revenue increased 29% year-over-year due to strong sales in Q3, including Mary Trumps Too Much and Never Enough and Bob Woodwards Rage. On the expense front, we remain focused on reducing our costs. We benefited from merger-related cost synergies in the third quarter and are on track to realize at least $300 million in savings for the full year 2020 and $800 million in annualized run rate merger-related cost synergies by the end of 2022 before consideration of onetime cost to achieve. In addition, we are benefiting from COVID-related cost savings, which helped offset some of the COVID impacts of revenue. And a portion of these cost savings are sustainable, while some are timing related and will return as we increase production activity. Turning to cash flow. Adjusted free cash flow in the quarter was $1.5 billion, equaling $2.9 billion year-to-date, benefiting from a significant working capital tailwind due in large part to temporary production delays. We expect this trend will reverse somewhat in Q4 as we continue to ramp production. Regarding the balance sheet. As a result of the financing transactions completed earlier this year and our strong free cash flow, we ended the quarter with over $3 billion of cash on hand and have no debt maturities until 2022. When considering merger-related cost synergies, our gross debt-to-adjusted OIBDA ratio calculates to 3.4x and 2.9x on a net debt basis. Following the quarter, we closed the sale of CNET on October 30, resulting in proceeds of $350 million net of taxes and transaction costs. Our cash balance and maturity profile provide operating flexibility and capacity to delever even before factoring future noncore asset sales. We continue to hold a 2.75x long-term leverage target, and we will use our excess capital after streaming investments and dividend payments to pay down debt. We do not currently plan to repurchase any shares. Id now like to share some impacts regarding our expectations for the remainder of the year. First, regarding our domestic streaming and digital video revenue, we anticipate continued momentum as we move closer to the launch of Paramount Plus next year. We expect to end 2020 at an annual run rate north of $2.8 billion in domestic streaming and digital video revenue, powered by strong growth in streaming subs and Pluto TV, MAUs and engagement. We continue to prepare for the launch of Paramount Plus by adding content to All Access, rolling out new features like customer profiles and enhanced recommendations and consolidating our marketing efforts to support the launch. As part of this consolidation, in Q4, we will start sunsetting some of our smaller legacy streaming services like MTV Hits, whose content will be incorporated in Paramount Plus. This will create a onetime headwind to streaming subscriber growth in Q4 as we set up for a much larger streaming service longer term. Nonetheless, we now expect to finish the year with at least 19 million domestic streaming subscribers, up from our original guidance of 16 million. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call We continue to expect Pluto TV to finish the year at over 30 million domestic MAUs and expect 40 million when measured on a global basis. Looking at affiliate revenue. We expect Q4 to show similar affiliate revenue growth rates to Q3 in both total company affiliate and domestic cable affiliate revenue as the combined strength in pricing, retrans, reverse comp, incremental carriage and subscription streaming revenue more than offsets linear subscriber declines. In terms of advertising revenue, we expect another quarter of improving trends driven by strength in political, sports and digital. And finally, on free cash flow. In Q4, we expect some reversal of the working capital tailwind as content production spend ramps materially. Nonetheless, for the full year 2020, adjusted free cash flow will still enjoy a material temporary working capital benefit from the delayed timing of production, which will continue to unwind in 2021. Looking to 2021. We are encouraged by the growth opportunity ahead for Paramount Plus, Showtime OTT and Pluto TV, and we expect to support this momentum by increasing our investments in streaming. As it relates to adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow, we expect the impacts of additional streaming investment to be partially offset by the benefits of incremental merger-related cost synergies and the Super Bowl on CBS in the first quarter. As we look forward, I want to reiterate how happy I am to be here and how excited I am about the growth opportunity we have. With that, we can now open the line for questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) Our first question will be coming from the line of Brett Feldman with Goldman Sachs. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst A 2-part question, if you dont mind, about Paramount Plus. And these are questions weve been getting a lot. First is when you think about -- or how should we think about the content thats really going to be the foundation of driving the reacceleration? And another way we could ask that question is, more simply, how do you think about how many original hours you need to really draw and attract users to the service? And then secondly, what ultimately is going to be the [metric] to determine whether the rebranding has been a success? Id assume wed be looking at subs. I dont know if youre willing to put a target out there right now. But if theres another way we should be looking at it, that would be very helpful. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Brett. Look, Im incredibly excited about the launch of Paramount Plus in early 21. And its going to be a truly differentiated and compelling offering thats unlike anything thats really out there today. And look, as a reminder, Paramount Plus is building on CBS All Access, a product that already has strong momentum, as youve seen in the metrics in the third quarter. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call That said, Paramount Plus is going to be live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment. Look at live sports, includes the NFL, the FCC, UEFA, PGA Golf, the NCAA and more. The breaking news side, it will be Live CBS News anytime from CBSN, live local news from CBS stations, key new shows like 60 Minutes and more to be announced. And then theres the mountain of entertainment from our flagship brands, which are Paramount, CBS, Nickelodeon, MTV, BET, Comedy Central, Smithsonian. It really provides us strength in a whole set of key genres: reality, crime procedurals, kids, films and more. Itll appeal across demographics, everything from preschoolers to 50-plus. Of course, its going to be available on demand but has some live elements. And its going to have a very strong original slate, many based on franchises that come from across the brands that are represented in the service. Id also point out that the consumer response from our preview launch -- and remember, in late July, we added 3,500 episodes from Viacom brands as well as about 190 Paramount films. That consumer response was strong and really served as proof of concept thats given us the confidence to lean in. The response include growing subscribers and a significant decrease in the average age. The average age of new subs came down by almost 10 years and was more diverse. We saw material increase in time spent. That included more than doubling time spent with film and Viacom content becoming a strong double-digit part of overall consumption. So no question the product is working. The plan now is to continue to add content. That will be about 10,000 additional hours. Of course, rebrand CBS All Access to Paramount Plus in early 21, and that will be the time when the original slate also has expanded further to encompass the flagship brands. The last thing Id say is the response to us selecting Paramount Plus as the brand has been overwhelmingly positive. So lots to be excited about here around Paramount Plus, and we see substantial incremental growth ahead. Operator The next question is from the line of Michael Morris with Guggenheim. Michael C. Morris - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Im hoping you can go into a little bit more detail on the cable networks affiliate strength in the quarter. Certainly came in ahead of what we were expecting. And theres a few moving parts in there with the strength in streaming, what youre seeing sort of in the kind of core traditional cable universe. Also, you had a couple of new agreements with YouTube, I think maybe one with another major distributor. Can you help us at all with those different components that contributed to the acceleration? And maybe whether we need to consider any that might not be recurring going forward? And then if I could, just real quickly, you talked a bit about cash flow into the coming year. And Im curious if you can share a little more about how Paramount Plus might impact free cash flow. Like how much of your investment in that business is sort of a repurposing or a shifting of sort of existing run rate? And how much will be incremental? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Michael. Ill take the affiliate piece, and Ill flip it to Naveen for the cash flow piece. So the -- look, Im really happy with the state of our affiliate business. We clearly had a very strong dynamic in the quarter, and that dynamic was driven both by unit and by rate. So if you look at the unit side of the equation, subscriber declines were less than expected from an industry perspective. We saw that, too, in our remits. And we had the benefit of incremental carriage in the form of Viacom networks being added to YouTube TV in July. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And then on top of that, you overlay rate and the rate story is very strong. We had renewal activity that benefited retrans and reverse comp as well as our premium services. And thats in addition to the built-in escalators we have in all our network deals. Id also remind you that on the reverse comp side, deals are priced in absolute dollars, and therefore, insulated from subscriber declines. So thats effectively another driver of rate. And then, of course, as you mentioned, our affiliate growth is also being driven by the strong momentum we have in streaming. And as I indicated in my prepared remarks, subscription streaming revenue growth accelerated to 78% in the quarter. So you put all that together and we had a very strong affiliate story. And importantly, we expect the growth we experienced in Q3 will continue at a similar rate in Q4. And then more broadly, I really like our position. Our product line positions us very well to respond to changing consumer behavior. We have compelling offerings in pay and free streaming apps, plus an industry-leading linear bundle. And we know how to work with a broad range of distribution partners. We know how to get deals done, and we have a legacy of creating mutually beneficial value. So feel great about affiliate. On the cash flow side, Naveen? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. In terms of the streaming investment piece, were not going to provide any specific guidance for 21 at this point. But what I can share is that as we think about the magnitude and the composition of our content investments, were very focused on thinking about it relative to the growth opportunities we see. And what I mean by that is, look, streaming is obviously a big opportunity. Its one where weve got several years of experience and increasing momentum. So its not a greenfield investment. Remember, our domestic streaming and digital video revenue is growing 50% on an annual run rate of $2.5 billion. So we see that as a really compelling case for investing to continue to support the growth. And as I mentioned in my earlier remarks, we do intend to do that in 2021. Some of that investment will be funded by the growth itself, and some of it will be funded by incremental cost synergies. And so unlike a pure-play streaming company, I think our content investments have a lot of leverage, meaning that every dollar we spend on content can benefit us across the entire company, from streaming to linear to film and adjacent businesses like consumer products. So we spend a lot of time thinking about how to allocate and reallocate that spend to optimize that leverage across all of those different distribution channels. Operator The next question is from the line of Jessica Reif Ehrlich with Bank of America Securities. Jessica Jean Reif Ehrlich - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - MD in Equity Research Bob, you touched on this in your prepared remarks but -- on the streaming reorganization. Can you talk or give us a little more color about how youre better positioned to compete in a world thats quickly shifting more towards direct-to-consumer-driven business models? What can you do now under this new organizational structure that you couldnt do before? Do you need to reorganize any other parts of the company? And then just a separate topic, but could you touch on the upfront and how it turned out? 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Jessica. So first, in terms of the streaming org, probably 3 things that I should highlight. First, as I mentioned in my remarks, we recently created this combined organization under Tom Ryan to enhance our ability to create value from the combined asset base. Now look, in particular, thats really about maximizing the benefit of us operating in both the pay and free space. I see that combination of having a range of benefits. It will advantage us in terms of increasing lifetime value, including helping manage SAC and churn. An integrated model also facilitates sharing of tech, data and analytics. And I believe an integrated model will facilitate a more sophisticated approach to windowing across our streaming services. The second thing you should know is that as part of this change, Tom Ryan joins our Content Council, and that means hes partnering with our content leadership as they execute on a multi-platform mandate. Our brand leads, you know them, Jessica, George Cheeks, Jim Gianopulos, Chris McCarthy, David Nevins, Brian Robbins, they are the best in the business. And they are now aligned with Tom to ensure we put the full weight of our company behind our streaming aspirations. I believe that enables a stronger team and allows us also to extract benefits from outside streaming from which to drive streaming, things like traditional reach and our broader IP portfolio, including, importantly, as related to key franchises. And by the way, were already seeing that benefit in terms of our plans for Paramount Plus and for Pluto TV. The last thing you should look, you should look at this really in the context of our overall execution as one ViacomCBS. As you know, Jessica, since day 1 of the merger, Ive been focused on harnessing the combined power of this company. And youve seen us move quickly to integrate key functions, both on the commercial and strategic services side to really benefit from that. Its a powerful model. Its already working in many ways, and I believe theres much more to come. On the upfront side, look, we doing an upfront -- a virtual upfront, in fact, in the middle of COVID-19, was something no one had ever experienced before, but Im really happy with where we ended up. I think the team did a phenomenal job really benefiting from our asset base. We were up low single digits on price. And we were very careful with volume, holding back inventory so that we have inventory to sell in scatter. And as you know, Jessica, scatter market today is very robust. Were seeing historically high premiums versus the upfront, higher than pre-COVID, by the way. And were seeing scatter-to-scatter in broadcast in double digits and then in cable in high singles. So that market is robust. You want to have inventory to play there, we will. On the digital side of the upfront, demand was very solid, up versus last years upfront. Its another reason why I love our position with Pluto. Its a solution -- because if you think about Pluto for a second, its a solution to our clients need for high-quality video reach in todays marketplace, and its a solution to our needs for impressions to drive growth. And when you look at the numbers, its a solution thats clearly working, and it has room to run. So again, a different upfront than any of us have ever experienced, but I feel very good about how were exiting it. And it is a good base to build on going into 21. Operator Next question is from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan. Alexia Skouras Quadrani - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Just 2 questions. The first one is on your impressive performance that youre seeing at Pluto. Im curious if youve seen any impact on engagement with some other your competitors that seem to move into the space, Roku, Peacock, to just name a few. And then just a follow-up, if I can. If you 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call can discuss the licensing of Comedy Central content to HBO Max, just given your ownership over such an important comedy brand. Im curious about the thought process of choosing to sell that to a third party rather than keeping it for Paramount Plus. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Alexia. So let me start by saying I couldnt be happier with our decision to acquire Pluto in late 2018. Its an amazing asset, and its growing even faster than we had hoped, never mind planned, but hoped at the time. I mean, look, you heard the metrics today. The momentum is unquestionable in both usage and monetization. If you recall, we closed on that deal in March of 19. And we quickly talked about it being a long-term opportunity of having $1 billion in revenue. I think people thought we were crazy when we said that. But given the growth weve experienced since then, our ambitions have actually grown from there. Why? Because as I said, really, in my last answer, its an amazing thing. Its a solution to the marketplace need for high-quality video reach, and its a solution to us needing more impressions to sell. Its a great intersection. In terms of the category and competitors, look, the category is very strong, but the good news is we have the #1 fast service. So are we feeling any pressure? No, not -- I mean look at the revenue growth rates. Pluto more than doubled in the quarter. And its -- again, its got tremendous momentum. With respect to your question on Comedy Central and HBO Max, look, our content licensing strategy, I think theres really 2 things to think about here: one is content licensing is an important business; but two is, our strategy is clearly evolving, particularly with Paramount Plus. So first, in terms of the content licensing business, we have a tremendous asset base in content, both from a library -- film library of 4,000 titles, TV library of 140,000 episodes, current series production of 750 series globally. We cant keep all that for ourself. It doesnt make sense. Its too much. And we do have strong demand from third parties because we are proven hit-makers. And that demand, we can reliably and profitably monetize it, and we do. And remember, the monetization is overwhelming a rental model so the IP does return to us over time for other downstream uses. Id also say that beyond the financial value of licensing, it has strategic value. We can and do use third-party platforms to extend and expand audience, and that also provides downstream benefits to our owned and operated platforms. That could be about early seasons on a third-party platform, driving demand for new seasons or spin-offs on ours, could also be about broader revenues like consumer products. All that said, and this is where I want to talk a bit about Comedy Central specifically that you asked, our strategy is clearly evolving in a more O&O, owned- and operated-based direction. And Paramount Plus has already impacted our content licensing decisions. We do have a 2-year view of the original slate for Paramount Plus that leans heavily on franchise, IP from across the company. We made those decisions before we decided what to license. Thats IP were very excited about. Youve heard a bit about it, but theres more to come as we get closer to launch. In terms of library, which is where your comedy question fits in, weve increasingly moved to a co-exclusive or nonexclusive model to ensure that Paramount Plus also benefits from the product. And again, you look at what is an acquisition driver versus what is an engagement driver. Library product is not acquisition drivers. These, we believe, will be our franchise-linked originals and our original originals. But library product, including some stuff from Comedy Central, is good for engagement. And so we want to have it for our own use. But again, we dont think that detracts from subscriber acquisition for Paramount Plus. So again, I feel very good about where we are in content licensing. We have a very thoughtful strategy. We are supporting that business, but we are clearly evolving it, including in a more owned and operated direction as we ramp Paramount Plus. And again, very excited about what 21 is going to bring. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Operator Next question is from Rich Greenfield with LightShed Partners. Richard Scott Greenfield - LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst Ive got 2. First, I guess if we look at Peacock and HBO Max, its pretty clear that SVOD, just as a business model, is really hard. And that you need sort of must-watch and kind of only-can-get-their-type content. Youve got things like Star Trek that are only available on All Access, I assume, will only be available on Paramount Plus. But when I look at things like the NFL, you can get those in other places. You dont have to watch Paramount Plus to get the NFL. So maybe just help investors understand like what type -- whats the content -- can you give us any preview of like whats going to be the must-have franchises that are going to be only available on Paramount Plus to drive that product? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Rich. So look, were absolutely focused on creating a must-watch service in Paramount Plus. And we do believe that our positioning of live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment is differentiated and compelling. Now as part of that, theres no question that franchises will be key to the success of Paramount Plus. And related to that, our strategy is to have new original variants of franchises to serve as subscription drivers. Those originals, in turn, much like my commentary to Alexias point in a way, will be linked to larger library assets that drive subscriber engagement. So were very focused on this strategy. And Id also note that one of our competitors has clearly demonstrated the value of that approach. So Star Trek, you mentioned, arguably the original proof of concept for CBS All Access, there are now multiple variants of it on All Access. It works well for us. Sports, which you also mentioned, theyre a bit different but clearly powerful. We have UEFA. That is exclusive, and were very happy we got it. By the way, were super happy we got it early and now have it for a whole bunch of years going forward. But look, the NFL, the FCC, the golf, even though theyre also available on CBS linear, they definitely work for All Access and will definitely work for Paramount Plus. In terms of Paramount Plus, we have announced some new entertainment franchises that were bringing to Plus: The Godfather, SpongeBob, the Criminal Minds spinout. But under the covers, our preview launch showed that theres other franchises that work, too, that have potential, things like MTVs reality show, The Challenge; things like Nicks animated library series, Avatar. And all this is really the tip of the iceberg. And we do have other franchises in the company. So you can safely assume that upcoming announcements will include new original variants of them for Paramount Plus. We will, of course, have some nonfranchise-based new originals to keep things fresh. But Im not going to get ahead of things and reveal them until we get much closer to launch. Operator Next question is from the line of Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Sticking on the direct-to-consumer theme. Two questions, Bob. How do you think about the kids and family investment and opportunity in front of Paramount Plus, particularly around sort of the Nick brand and animated content? Some of the more general entertainment, broader services have kids content, but theyre not dedicated kids apps, so to speak. So just wondering how youre thinking about integrating Nick and animation and to make sure you get the most out of that inside of Paramount Plus. And then for either you or Naveen, Im just curious -- maybe Naveen, since from your Amazon days. When you look at how ViacomCBS is executing on like customer acquisition, retention, analytics, across kind of Pluto, Paramount Plus, Showtime, do you think theres opportunities to align those 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call across the 3 services in a more effective way than whats being done today? Obviously, theyve had a lot of success. So Im not asking you to Monday morning quarterback then. But just from your perspective, Id be curious what you see as the big opportunities operationally there. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Ben. Let me go first, and then Ill flip it to Naveen for the second part. So look, the kids -- and its really the kids and family space, we believe, is fundamentally important to us at Paramount Plus. We obviously believe that bringing the Nick brand and its incredible library of both shows and IP that can continue to go forward is an amazing advantage. If you look at the preview launch and what weve done with CBS All Access to date, we have added a bunch of Nickelodeon content. That content is definitely a significant contributor to what I characterized as a strong double-digit share of overall consumption that Viacom network content now represents on CBS All Access. As we get into Paramount Plus, we mentioned adding 10,000 additional hours. Certainly, a bunch of that will be from Nick. We mentioned a growing original slate. Certainly, thats coming from Nick. We have mentioned one title that we are putting as new exclusive original on Paramount Plus, that is KAMP KORAL, which is a SpongeBob spinout. That is getting dropped after we exclusively release the SpongeBob, SPONGE ON THE RUN movie in the domestic U.S. market on Paramount Plus. So we think kids and family is very important, and we think we have real advantage in terms of content and capabilities here. By the way, we are also -- Naveen, I think mentioned adding features and other things to Paramount Plus. One of the things were doing there is in the profile area, including setting it up to be a safe kids environment. We believe thats important, particularly for the preschool side of the house, but obviously, older kids as well. So yes, thats important part of the equation. And again, this is another place where ViacomCBS brings a tremendous advantage to the table. And having Brian Robbins, who, as I referenced, is on the Content Council, is working with Tom Ryan, is focused on moving this forward. In fact, he was the advocate for KAMP KORAL debuting on Paramount Plus versus Nickelodeon linear because he believed it was a key part of a franchise play. So hes totally in us making Paramount Plus a success including, of course, in the kids space. Naveen? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. Thanks, Bob. Ben, I think in terms of the analytics and the metrics that go into making a subscription business highly successful, as I said in my remarks, I see a lot of encouraging trends. And I look at it through the lens of all the components that are required to maximize the overall lifetime of our viewers. So whether you look at churn, whether you look at SAC, whether you look at engagement, I think that we have great momentum in many of those dimensions. And were highly focused on continuing to optimize them. In particular, the fact that we have the linked ecosystem between subscription in Paramount Plus and Showtime and Pluto TV as a free offering, I think, gives us tremendous opportunities to apply analytics and data and figure out the most optimal way to acquire subscribers and ways to maximize their lifetime, perhaps by moving them between those services, depending on their needs at any given point. And I would add to that, that we can layer on top of those different services some really sophisticated analytics, and well be able to collect more data than we would have with a single service. So Im extremely excited about what we can do there. I think theres clearly momentum, but also a lot of opportunity that we can take that to the next level. Operator Our next question is coming from the line of Doug Mitchelson with Crédit Suisse. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Douglas David Mitchelson - Crédit Suisse AG, Research Division - MD One for Bob and one for Naveen, if I could. Bob, youve talked in the past about steady content spending. If we look through the COVID impacts -- and I guess Id be curious how far back to normal the production of content is in 4Q. But the question is whether thats steady with 2019 content spending is the right way to think about 2021 or as you see all these opportunities in streaming, if youre starting to take those content spending budgets higher. And for Naveen, seeing how much Bob wants to spend on content in the future, how is the balance sheet position at this point in time? How should investors think about allocation of free cash flow going forward? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So look, on the content side, obviously, COVID interrupted a trajectory that was pretty well understood because it did impact film and television production. But I am happy to say that weve made very significant progress in a safe return to production with the health of our crews and talent top of mind. At this point, knock on wood, were almost back to normal volumes. If you look at our Viacom media networks, the cable side of the house, theyre probably at 95% of production relative to prior year. CBS essentially has all of the fall network series currently in production. By the way, we debuted a bunch of them recently, including Young Sheldon, Mom, NCIS as well as a new comedy from Chuck, B Positive. And theres more coming. Showtimes back up in production in almost all of its series. And even Paramount on the film side, which obviously very location based, is ramping up and expects to be back at full capacity in 2021. And I also mentioned that our originals for Paramount Plus are on track. So again, from a production volume standpoint, we really have made extraordinary progress, particularly in the last quarter. And were currently in very good shape, and that means were ramping back to a more normal level of content spend. Obviously, that trajectory will continue into 21. And look, well continue to work to remix it as we have been to optimize our return on investment, pushing towards growth areas, et cetera. But the production side is actually in pretty good shape, again, knock on wood at the moment. Naveen? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. Thanks, Ben. So in relation to the balance sheet and cash, I feel very good about the current state of the balance sheet. As you heard, $3 billion of cash on the balance sheet today. Thats before accounting any of the proceeds from CNET or other future noncore asset sales. And going forward, we think about 3 financial priorities. We want to be able to support our organic investment, principally in streaming. We want to fund our dividend, and we want to pay down debt. The first 2 are basically funded out of free cash flow. Debt paydown is accomplished through any excess free cash flow and then noncore asset sales. So to the extent we do complete additional transactions in the future, I would expect the proceeds of those to primarily go to debt reduction. So hopefully, that gives you some clarity. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Thanks, Doug. Operator, we have time for one last question. Operator That question will be coming from the line of John Hodulik with UBS. 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call John Christopher Hodulik - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - MD, Sector Head of the United States Communications Group and Telco & Pay TV Analyst Great. Maybe just a couple of quick follow-ups. First, on the -- some housekeeping. The -- any update on those noncore asset sales in terms of what we can look for in terms of timing? And then maybe for Bob, on the paid streaming side. Net adds for the quarter slowed a bit versus the last 2. Was there -- did the consolidation of the legacy D2C platforms impact the quarter? Or was there some pull-forward in maybe 2Q from COVID? And then lastly, where is the distribution most effective? Did the Apple promo that you guys had out there pro forma as expected? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. So Ill take the first part on noncore asset sales. No specific timing updates to provide there other than to say that as weve announced previously, we do intend to divest Simon & Schuster. We do also intend to divest Black Rock. We will complete both of those transactions at a time and in a form where we think we can maximize value. Simon & Schuster particularly is one that we think has been performing extremely well of late and is a very valuable asset, though still not core for us. And so we do look forward to completing that in the future. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. And to your question really on, I would call it, mix of subscriber adds and whats going on with subscribers. Again, Q3, on a pay subscriber growth basis, very strong. Q4, we didnt take the number up as much as we did before. Remember, our year-end target for pay used to be 16 million then. We took it up to 18 million. Now were taking up to 19 million. It is true that in the fourth quarter, as I think Naveen referenced in his remarks, we are doing some sunsetting of smaller services -- service like MTV Hits as we prepare for the relaunch of Paramount Plus in early 21. And were also kind of focusing on marketing in 21 versus in the fourth quarter. So I wouldnt read too much into the fact that we only raised it to 19 million versus a higher number. We feel very good about our trajectory in 20, and were super excited about where this thing is going in 21. As to your question about kind of mix of ads and Apple TV+ versus others, the good news is we have broad and really ubiquitous distribution. Its one of our, I believe, real advantages in this game. Its partially because we dont have an in-house distribution channel that we favor. And were really seeing net adds come from a broad range of places, yes, including Apple TV+. But by far, thats not the only place theyre coming from. So we feel good about that. Look, were very pleased with our results for this quarter, including the accelerated transformation of our business that youre seeing in less than a year. And despite the challenges of the pandemic, we brought together a single ViacomCBS that does have growing momentum and is creating value on multiple dimensions. You see that in our Q3 metrics, both on the traditional side, and importantly, in streaming, where our momentum is indisputable. And while were really pleased with Q3, its what to come that were really excited about. So thank you for your time today. Thank you for your support. And finally, Id like to thank all ViacomCBS employees for all they do every day to drive our company forward. Stay well, everyone. Operator Thank you. This concludes todays conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation. 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2020, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 13428652-2020-11-06T18:27:50.473 17 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2020 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. NOVEMBER 06, 2020 / 1:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q3 2020 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call"
"Paramount";"Earnings Transcript";"REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call EVENT DATE/TIME: MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM GMT OVERVIEW: Co. reported 1Q21 total revenue of $7.4b and diluted EPS of $1.52. REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Anthony Joseph DiClemente ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Naveen Chopra ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Robert Marc Bakish ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Alexia Skouras Quadrani JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Benjamin Daniel Swinburne Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Brett Joseph Feldman Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst John Janedis Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Media Analyst Michael C. Morris Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Richard Scott Greenfield LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Viacom Conference Call. Todays call is being recorded. At this time, Id like to turn the call over to Executive Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Anthony DiClemente. Please go ahead, sir. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Good morning, everyone, and thank you for taking the time to join us for our First Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Joining me for todays discussion are Bob Bakish, our President and CEO; and Naveen Chopra, our CFO. Please note that in addition to our earnings release, we have trending schedules containing supplemental information available on our website. We also have a slide presentation for you to follow along with our remarks. I want to refer you to the second slide in that presentation and remind you that certain statements made on this call are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in more detail in our filings with the SEC. Some of todays financial remarks will focus on adjusted results. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings release or in our trending schedules, which contain supplemental information and in each case, can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website. Now I will turn the call over to Bob. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Thanks, Anthony. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Its been about 10 weeks since we laid out our streaming strategy and goals at our investor event. Since then, we successfully launched ParamountPlus in March, and Im thrilled with where we are in streaming and overall. On todays call, Ill cover 3 topics: first, ViacomCBS strong Q1, a quarter with clear operating strength and sequential improvement in key financial metrics; second, the companys momentum in streaming, momentum, which is clearly visible in the metrics across fee, pay and premium and momentum, which gives us even more confidence in our strategy; and third, our path forward, an overview of the content we have coming and 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call our plan to build on the early success of ParamountPlus by leaning in even more. Then Ill hand it over to Naveen to provide additional financial and operational detail before opening it up to take your questions. Ill start with Q1 2021 results. What Im pleased to say, we achieved another quarter of year-over-year growth in revenue, adjusted OIBDA and adjusted EPS, further demonstrating the strength of ViacomCBS and a related recovery from COVID impact on the business. It all starts with the power of our content and its enduring popularity with audiences. In Q1, ViacomCBS had the #1 share of viewing in the U.S. across key demos. As part of that, CBS currently ranks #1 among all broadcasters and will finish the 2020-2021 season as Americas most watched network in primetime for the 13th straight season. We also own the most top 30 cable networks among persons 2+ and persons 18-49 in the quarter, and Showtime had the top 2 scripted shows on premium cable. In social, ViacomCBS was the #1 company on broadcast, cable, radio and film properties in global social views. And as youll hear momentarily, streaming consumption is on a powerful growth trajectory. That performance translated into total revenues of $7.4 billion, a 14% increase year-over-year, driven by strength across key revenue types, including advertising, affiliate and streaming. In advertising, which now excludes streaming, revenue grew 21%. The big picture here is that underlying advertising demand is strong and trending in a positive direction as the reopening of the economy gains momentum. And of course, we clearly benefited from our broadcast of the Super Bowl and NCAA tournament games. In affiliate, which now also excludes streaming, were seeing the power of the combined company manifest itself as revenue grew 5%, benefiting from successful renewal activity, incremental carriage and price increases. And since our last call, 14 ViacomCBS Cable Networks, including Comedy Central, MTV, Nickelodeon and BET went live on Hulus vMVPD platform. We also completed a new distribution deal with Frontier, further demonstrating our valuable partnerships and must-have content. And weve seen robust growth in global streaming revenue, which is up 65% year-over-year. Ill dig into this momentarily. On top of that, we have substantially strengthened our financial position, benefiting from the $1.7 billion of adjusted free cash flow we generated in the quarter and fortified by the $2.7 billion of capital we raised from our equity offering in March. Now Id like to spend some time on our strategy and execution in streaming. Starting with free, where Pluto TV is the largest free ad-supported streaming service across all metrics: monthly active users, total viewing hours and revenue, this based on all publicly disclosed information. Clearly, the top of funnel continues to be robust, particularly as Pluto TV added 6 million MAUs in the quarter, bringing the total global monthly active users to nearly 50 million, reflecting continued domestic growth and international expansion. And that use of growth is translating into strong advertising performance. Across all our streaming advertising businesses, we saw a 62% surge in year-over-year growth in streaming advertising revenue, reaching $428 million in the first quarter. That growth was led by Pluto TV, where revenue more than doubled year-over-year. High-value connected TV usage accounts for the overwhelming majority of Pluto TV consumption, with domestic monthly watch time per user increasing 28% year-on-year, making it a very desirable advertising platform for our clients. To build on this growth, Pluto TV continues to substantially scale its content offerings. During the quarter, Pluto TV launched 19 new channels, including Major League Baseball, Smithsonian, and ParamountPlus picks. All in, Pluto TV now has over 150,000 hours of content from 250 active U.S. partners. And this week, we launched Pluto TV on Español, a both new update and expansion, essentially doubling Pluto TVs U.S. Hispanic offering to nearly 50 channels and 20,000 hours of content. This, alongside the existing English offering, makes it ideal for bilingual audiences as well. Internationally, we also continue our expansion of Pluto TV. During the quarter, we launched in France and are now in 25 markets spanning Latin America, including Brazil, the U.K., Germany and Spain. Bottom line, Pluto TV has seen robust global growth in usage, monetization and sell-through, benefiting from a strong set of underlying drivers and overdelivering across all metrics. In premium streaming, Showtime OTT had its strongest quarter ever, delivering another record-setting quarter in sign-ups while generating unprecedented viewership. In fact, it was the best quarter ever for streams and hours watched on the service. Viewers were highly engaged, driven by hits like Shameless and Your Honor. And looking forward, the content lineup for Showtime over the next year looks really strong. And then theres ParamountPlus. As I said at our Investor Day, ParamountPlus comes to the streaming space with real competitive advantages and with a strategy thats unique to the marketplace. As a result of the strong launch of ParamountPlus on March 4 and the continued momentum in our other streaming services, we added 6 million new global streaming subscribers in the quarter, bringing our total global streaming subscribers to 36 million. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Needless to say, were thrilled with these early results. Were clearly seeing the benefit of putting the full power of ViacomCBS behind ParamountPlus. The service benefited from a dramatically expanded and diversified content slate communicated through a robust multi-platform marketing campaign. March was our biggest month ever for sign-ups. And consumption was strong, with watch time per active subscriber up 17% year-over-year. The broadening of this service is clearly working. In fact, almost half of subscriber engagement came from originals as well as content from Paramount and our Cable Networks. And our diversified content mix, including kids content, content from MTV and sports like soccer, reduced the average age of new subscribers by 6 years in the quarter. Looking ahead, were excited about the ad-supported ParamountPlus $4 99 tier, which will be coming in early June. ParamountPlus joins Pluto TVs premium digital inventory and anchors of our ViacomCVS IT advertising offering, providing us with another powerful tool to showcase the full advertising power of ViacomCBS and our ability to satisfy the growing demand among advertisers in the category. Internationally, we launched ParamountPlus in Latin America, Nordics and Canada. And these markets are also showing strong initial performance when it comes to both subscriber and engagement trends. And as part of the international rollout, were expanding our distribution and awareness of ParamountPlus by signing creative partnerships with leading MVPDs and e-commerce platform. For example, in April, ParamountPlus launched on Megacable, one of the largest cable operators in Mexico. Also in April, ParamountPlus partnered with Mercado Libre, the largest e-commerce ecosystem in Latin America with recent launches in Brazil and Mexico. Another international transaction I want to highlight is our agreement to acquire Chilevisión, the leading broadcast network in Chile. This deal will strengthen and expand our presence in the Southern cone of Latin America and help accelerate our streaming strategy in the region by expanding our already substantial Spanish language library and production capabilities. Together with Telefe in the South cone, Chilevisión will contribute to ViacomCBS International Studios, becoming one of the largest content creators of Spanish language globally. And its a great promotional asset for our streaming product offerings as well. Stepping back from this, its clear our unique strategy across free, premium and paid is working, which is why were leaning in even more. As you know, we completed a $2.7 billion capital raise in March. Naveen will speak about this in greater detail in a few minutes. But know that we did this transaction because we saw an attractive opportunity to raise capital to further incremental content and other investments to further drive our streaming ambition. And weve already begun to move on a few early opportunities in this regard. I want to finish by speaking a bit more of whats to come, particularly from a content perspective. In February, we laid out a content strategy for ParamountPlus, a strategy focused on key pillars that differentiate the service in the market: sports, news, kids, unscripted reality, scripted and movies. And since launch, that content has already started to scale and show real momentum. Theres no question that live sports and breaking news clearly differentiates ParamountPlus. And Q1 saw a series of important events in this lane, including the Super Bowl, UEFA, the NCAA Mens Tournament, the PGA Tour and Oprahs Interview Special with Meghan and Harry. These events were key engagement and sign-up drivers. And looking forward, were excited about our expanded soccer slate, the return of the NFL, College Football and more. Speaking of football. As you know, in March, we extended our partnership with the NFL for another decade. This is a partnership were thrilled about, and streaming rights are a critical component of that deal. Among other things, ParamountPlus will have the flexibility to distribute NFL game on both the premium tier at $9.99 and a new $4.99 ad-supported tier. And as we announced in February, Inside The NFL will be exclusively available on ParamountPlus starting this fall. And were continuing to build critical mass in soccer. CBS Sports and ParamountPlus recently acquired exclusive U.S. rights to Serie A, the premier Italian soccer league. Its another major step in us becoming the #1 destination for soccer fans with an unbeatable portfolio of now over 1,400 soccer matches each year, with teams including Juventus, Real Madrid and Chelsea. This, on top of all the other marquee CBS sporting events we deliver. Moving to kids. Thanks to our Nickelodeon brand and massive library with renowned characters and global franchises, subscribers are discovering new content or rewatching some of their favorite shows. Since the ParamountPlus launch, weve seen robust audience engagement with kids and family content. Nickelodeon originals like The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run, Camp Coral as well as library content like Paw Patrol, were some of the strong performers in the quarter, driving sign-ups and engagement. And were excited for the upcoming launches of Rugrats in May and iCarly in June, new versions of 2 iconic Nick franchises that have fans buzzing in social. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call In unscripted and reality, the fastest-growing genre in streaming, we saw solid early momentum. Exclusive original shows like MTVs The Challenge All Stars and Real World Homecoming, plus library shows like Ink Master, all had very strong engagement. And we continue to ramp up reality series on the platform, including new exclusive originals starting with Cradle to the Stage starring Dave Grohl later this month; a new RuPaul in June; and later in the year, the return of Behind the Music. And in scripted. Originals like The Stand, Younger and Star Trek: Discovery are performing extraordinarily well. By the end of the year, youll start to see a substantially scaled volume of new exclusive originals, including new drama series like the first Yellowstone spinoff, Y: 1883; female-led dramas like Why Women Kill and The Good Fight; comedies such as Inside Amy Schumer, Trevor Noah Weekly and The Game; and original franchises like Star Trek: Prodigy and the fourth season of Star Trek: Discovery. In addition, were expanding our global ParamountPlus pipeline. As a first step in this endeavor, were adding a number of originals produced by Viacom International Studios. This will start as soon as this summer with scripted content produced in Latin America and factual content produced out of the U.K. Finally, turning to movies, where we are poised to dramatically enhance the scale of our offerings. In fact, we will shortly kick off a mountain of movies marketing campaign, where we will highlight the thousands of new movies were adding to ParamountPlus, including blockbuster hits and exclusive originals. We start by greatly expanding the depth of the film library on the service. 1,000 additional movies are going live in early June with additional titles following through July, bringing the total to over 2,500. Hits like The Avengers and Skyfall will be available on the service soon as well as a bunch of great Paramount films like Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol, Rocketman, Sonic The Hedgehog and more. And Im thrilled to announce that Infinite, a sci-fi thriller starring Mark Walberg, will premiere exclusively on ParamountPlus in June. That will be followed by the streaming premier of A Quiet Place Part 2, after its 45-day theatrical run, and we will follow that with the Paw Patrol Movie, a treat for families eagerly awaiting a feature-length version of the most popular preschool characters in the world. In addition, new original movies like Paranormal Activity and In Between will premiere on ParamountPlus by the end of 21. And all of this is a preview to a substantial ramping up of original movies next year, where we expect to begin averaging an original movie a week in 2022. Well have more on this in the months ahead. And finally, were moving to accelerate ParamountPluss global expansion. We have already established ourselves in Canada, the Nordics and all of Latin America, including Brazil. Next up is Australia on August 11, a launch that will include Paramount movies, Showtime and ParamountPlus originals, in addition to a cross-section of product from our cable brands and Network 10. By the end of 2021, well have launched subscription streaming services led by ParamountPlus in 25 markets. And now we plan to almost double that by the end of 2022 when our global streaming footprint will reach 45 markets, all in less than 2 years. Net-net, were thrilled with the performance of ParamountPlus thus far. Our strategy is working. Were investing in content with a disciplined approach. We have a lot in the pipeline, and we look forward to whats to come. Now Ill turn it over to Naveen to cover the quarters financial performance in greater detail. Naveen? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Thank you, Bob, and good morning, everyone. As Bob mentioned, we had very strong financial results in the first quarter of 2021 across revenue, adjusted OIBDA, adjusted EPS and adjusted free cash flow. Our results reflect robust growth in streaming, where we saw record subscriber additions and revenue growth of 65% as well as solid performance in our linear business. Our first quarter streaming results are evidence of the early positive response we have seen from the launch of ParamountPlus and continued momentum in Pluto TV and Showtime OTT. We added 6 million global streaming subscribers in Q1, marking a record quarter of subscriber growth and taking us to 36 million global streaming subscribers as of quarter end. The significant majority of new subscribers were from ParamountPlus. And of those, the significant majority were domestic customers. The combination of subscriber growth and increased engagement helped streaming subscription revenue grow 69% to $388 million. These results include the impact of subscribers whose free trials extended beyond quarter end and international subscriber growth, where ARPUs are generally lower relative to domestic subscriptions. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Turning to streaming advertising. The largest driver of growth came from Pluto TV, where we added 6.4 million global Pluto TV MAUs in Q1 and now reached nearly 50 million MAUs globally. Pluto TV engagement also continues to improve. Average monthly watch time per domestic user increased 28% year-on-year in the first quarter. The increased engagement, combined with domestic sell-through rates that were up 600 basis points, drove significant improvements in Plutos domestic ARPU. The evolution of Plutos domestic business also gives us confidence that a similar pattern of international monetization growth can be unlocked as we scale globally. Overall, Pluto TV revenue more than doubled in Q1 on a year-over-year basis for the third consecutive quarter. The strong advertising performance from Pluto TV and our other brand-specific streaming sites and apps, all of which are critical drivers of our IQ digital ad platform, drove a 62% increase in streaming advertising revenue to $428 million. Advertising revenue, which excludes streaming, grew 21% in the quarter to $2.7 billion, driven by the success of Super Bowl LV and the return of the NCAA Mens Basketball Tournament, neither of which aired on CBS in the prior year period. Advertising demand continues to improve with strong scatter pricing relative to the upfront and last years scatter market. Affiliate revenue, which also excludes streaming, grew 5% in Q1 to $2.1 billion. We continue to benefit from distribution renewals signed in 2020 that included incremental carriage and improved economics as well as contractual rate increases, which more than offset the decline in the number of pay TV subscribers. Licensing and other revenue grew 11% to $1.8 billion. Keep in mind that licensing revenue is reported on a consolidated basis after the elimination of significant intercompany licensing transactions related to content on ParamountPlus. Theatrical revenue was insignificant in Q1 as we had no releases in the quarter. We are looking forward to our first theatrical release in over a year with A Quiet Place 2, which debuts in theaters on May 28. Total revenue was $7.4 billion, up 14% year-over-year, leading to adjusted OIBDA of $1.6 billion, up 31% year-over-year. And diluted EPS was $1.52, up 36% year-over-year. The growth in adjusted OIBDA benefited from our strong revenue growth, partially offset by costs associated with our investment in ParamountPlus. Q1 adjusted free cash flow was $1.7 billion, benefiting from OIBDA growth and the timing of cash production spend and favorable collections, among other factors. Moving to the balance sheet. During Q1, we redeemed $2 billion of debt and raised $2.7 billion of cash from the sale of equity and mandatory convertible preferred securities. In combination with our strong free cash flow generation, these transactions resulted in $5.5 billion of cash on hand and total debt of $17.8 billion at quarter end. This translates to a 2.2x net leverage ratio as of March 31. Id now like to share some insights regarding the second quarter. We expect continued robust growth in streaming revenue with the Q2 growth rates for total streaming revenue, streaming advertising revenue and streaming subscription revenue, all accelerating versus the Q1 growth rates. Streaming subscription revenue, in particular, will benefit from ParamountPlus subscribers who began free trials in Q1 but only start generating revenue in Q2. We expect another quarter of strong double-digit advertising growth as demand continues to improve and scatter pricing remains at all-time highs. We will also benefit from the NCAA Final 4 and championship games, which didnt occur in the prior year period. Turning to affiliate revenue. We expect to see modest acceleration in the year-over-year growth in Q2 relative to Q1 as we continue to benefit from several new distribution deals signed in 2020 and early 2021, which include increased pricing and expanded distribution. For content licensing, we expect revenue to decline year-on-year because Q2 2020 included significant revenue and OIBDA from the licensing of South Park. In regard to Q2 adjusted free cash flow, we expect some reversal of the working capital tailwinds, which benefited Q1 largely driven by the timing of production spend and continued investment in ParamountPlus. Looking further out, our enthusiasm for the potential of streaming continues to grow. The streaming market is global. It is growing fast, and we are well-positioned to take share. Streaming presents a compelling market opportunity for 2 key reasons: one, unit upside, where streaming allows for a greater addressable base of viewers than linear; and two, ARPU upside because streaming ARPUs have a more compelling long-term trajectory than linear. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call The unit upside is especially true internationally, where streaming allows us to reach beyond the pay TV universe, which has limited penetration in many international markets. And when it comes to ARPU upside, we think that over time, the per subscriber economics of streaming can be accretive to linear when considering the combination of advertising and subscription revenue captured by our ecosystem of free, pay and premium streaming services. We see opportunity to drive ParamountPlus subscription ARPU higher as distribution channels and subscriber mix evolve and as we expand our content offering to deliver greater and greater value to customers. And we see even more growth potential in advertising ARPU, where both ParamountPlus and Pluto TV will benefit from increased engagement, improved targeting, dynamic ad loads and sell-through optimization. I would also note that in most instances outside the United States, streaming economics are already accretive as international linear ARPU is materially lower than streaming ARPU today. This attractive market opportunity is one of the primary reasons we decided to raise capital in March. We intend to use the additional investment firepower to take our streaming efforts to the next level, building on the consistent momentum we have demonstrated over the past few quarters and leaning even more aggressively into streaming. You will see us deploy new capital in 4 major areas: first, we intend to fund development of more original series and movies exclusively for streaming; second, we will pursue incremental streaming sports rights; third, we will look to accelerate international launches and market expansion; and fourth, we plan to further reduce the amount of content we license to third-party streamers, instead, preserving more of these assets for our in-house streaming services. Were moving quickly to start deploying this capital. In fact, Bob shared some of our early investment initiatives, including the addition of Serie A football, a ParamountPlus exclusive release of the movie, Infinite, and the acceleration of our international deployment plan. Nonetheless, the bulk of our investments will occur in 2022 and beyond. In the months ahead, well have more to share on these additional investment plans as we aim to capture an even greater share of a growing long-term market opportunity. With that, we can now open the line for questions. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Michael Morris with Guggenheim. Michael C. Morris - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst A couple of questions on the streaming business. First one on ParamountPlus. Appreciate all the detail on sign-ups and engagement. Theres a lot in there. Hoping to dig a little bit more on trend. I know were only a couple of months into ParamountPlus, but we do have some good historic data on -- with All Access. So Im curious if you can talk about how engagement churn has sort of trended with the new product availability, the expanded product. And if anything, on the content side in particular, has maybe surprised you compared to what you were anticipating and how that might inform some of those investment decisions going forward? And then also on Pluto, I think ad revenue growth is outpacing that sort of combination of usage and per engagement growth, engagement per user growth. Is that accurate? Theres a couple of moving parts in there. And can you kind of provide any context for what the upside is for Pluto maybe compared to how you monetize your linear audiences? 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. Yes. Thanks, Mike. Nice midi 2-parter to open here. So in terms of your first question, we are super excited about what were seeing with ParamountPlus. And Id say, Id start with the overwhelming learning from what weve seen is that our content strategy is working. Theres no question that consumers are embracing a service, spanning live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment. We can see that in the sub numbers. As we mentioned, we added 6 million pay subs in the quarter globally, but the overwhelming piece of that was from ParamountPlus domestic. And importantly, that includes adding younger subs with an average age of new subs down 6 years. Second point is ParamountPlus is showing great lines in terms of engagement. In fact, the percent of our daily subs, which are active -- actually, the percent of our total subs, I should say, which are active on a daily basis is up sequentially and up year-over-year. And we see strong double-digit growth in hours per active user. In fact, thats up about 17% in March versus the prior year. When you look under that in terms of content, which is obviously the key driver, we continue to see the power of what worked before. That includes sports, where we obviously benefited from the Super Bowl, the NCAA, golf and UEFA, as we said. It includes originals, including The Stand, Star Trek and others. It includes CBS content. Live content is strong as our shows like NCIS and Hawaii Five-0. But the real news is its now broader. Nickelodeon, in particular, is turning into a powerful driver of subs and engagement, probably more quickly than we would have thought. Its a clear sub driver since the relaunch, and it now accounts for a strong double-digit share of streams. And thats really because of the combination of compelling exclusive originals. Of course, The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run and the new Camp Coral series, combined with a big known library. Thats a recipe that clearly works. I think its also worth noting that the SpongeBob franchise in totality quickly moved to the top of the rankers at ParamountPlus. And probably whats most important here is this is an example of us replicating our strength in a legacy linear position here in kids in streaming. And weve also seen early positives from unscripted and reality as well as movies. So early days for ParamountPlus, but we very much like what we see in terms of consumer reaction to the product. And as you know, based on that, were leaning in even more. Moving to the second part of your question on Pluto. As you heard today, Pluto TV continues to be an incredible growth engine for this company. And when you -- when we looked at it, we see 4 really powerful underlying growth drivers for Pluto TV, all of which are delivering now and all of which have a lot of room to run. It starts with MAUs, as you heard now under just 50 million globally, thats up about 90%, slightly a hair more year-over-year. And we have substantial momentum and opportunity ahead. It then moves to engagement, where we see time -- you mentioned it. Time spent per user continues to increase. And this is particularly as users gain familiarity with the product and as the volume of quality content continues to increase, now about over 150,000 hours in the U.S. We also look at sell-out. That was actually up about 600 basis points year-to-year, but were nowhere near 100%. And so we do have substantial room to run. And equally importantly, if you look at ad load on Pluto TV versus linear, the Pluto TV ad load is substantially below that of linear. And then theres pricing. We see advertisers with significant demand for -- in particular, connected TV inventory. And that, in turn, is supporting a great pricing dynamic. We havent actually pushed pricing on Pluto TV in the last 2 years. So its really one of the most efficiently priced products on the marketplace, and that gives us a really great pricing lane going forward when we choose to pull that lever. Last thing Id say is Pluto TV revenue now more than doubled for the third sequential quarter in a row. Overwhelming driver of that is volume, and thats a combination of MAUs and time spent. Again, we havent pushed the price lever, and we havent pushed sell-out much. And thats part of our overall streaming growth story. Its the biggest part, and its what helped push us to 62%. So net-net, were in a great situation here on so many levels. Operator Our next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman with Goldman Sachs. 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Two if you dont mind. So just following up a little bit. As you had noted, the quarter-end global subscriber number would include anyone that was still in a free trial period. And with ParamountPlus having launched in early March, anyone who signed up after the launch would have been in their free trial at the end of the quarter, so youre now 2 months past the launch. Many of those customers have gone through the free months, some of them have gone through a paid month. Can you give us any insight into what the free-to-paid conversion is looking like and maybe how that has compared to what you historically saw with CBS All Access? And then Naveen, thank you for the color around sort of the 4 areas youre looking to sort of lean in with your investment on streaming. Can you give us any context? Are certain of those a little more front burner than others? You said we might start to see that in the financials next year. What does that mean? And then really, the more important question is if youre investing more, how should we think about seeing that payoff? Do you think you can meet your long-term targets sooner? Do you think theres upside? Any further insight there would be greatly appreciated. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Brett. So look, to your first question, we like what were seeing in general with respect to conversion and churn. Unpacking that a bit, conversion rates from trial to pay are consistent with what weve seen historically with All Access. And thats despite the fact that weve ramped sub growth pretty significantly, and so were not seeing any kind of degradation in quality as we widen the subscriber net. Thats a good thing. And its particularly a good thing given that we had the Super Bowl this year, which clearly brought in a bunch of folks for the Super Bowl. But as with the broader sub base, theyre sticking around for more, again, for this broader ParamountPlus offering. On the churn side, again, remains in the same range as prior year despite the massive growth in the sub base. Specifically to your question of the 30-day free trial, which we did for launch, Id highlight 2 points. One is, believe it or not, the conversion rate was actually marginally above our historical trial conversion rates. So we are happy about that. And second, that particular program, the 30-day free trial, ended on March 31 and is no longer in the market. By the way, a little look forward past the end of the quarter, both conversion and churn improved in April, both versus prior year and versus March. So net-net, we feel great about what were seeing in this area. Im going to flip it to Naveen in a second for the second part of your question, but I do want to say, he highlighted the 4 investment areas. Probably the biggest investment area when push comes to shove will be more originals. Were very excited about what we have in the pipeline on the series side. And we see our studios, be that Paramount, be that Nickelodeon, be that MTV Entertainment, ramping original studios as part of this capital raise. And were working on that. And of course, we talked about movies and how were ramping that and really excited about moving to an exclusive original movie per week as we get part of the way into 2022. And so a lot going on there in terms of our plans to deploy that capital. Naveen? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. So let me try to add a little color in terms of how we see the deployment of that capital playing out. You heard Bob talked today about some of the ways in which were already starting to deploy that capital, which, as a reminder, its things like the addition of Serie A football on ParamountPlus, the Infinite movie being released on ParamountPlus, significant acceleration of our international expansion plans and starting to ramp up to getting an original movie each week on ParamountPlus. So those things will allow us to start deploying some of the incremental cash, as I said, in the second half of 21. That being said, were obviously not going to spend $2.7 billion overnight. So the bulk of the investment will happen over a multi-year period of time. And we are continuing to be diligent in evaluating a variety of different investment options against one another, and were very focused on the ROI of those across all of the different buckets that we articulated. So I would expect that as we commit to some of those specific plans, well look to share more about the expense magnitude, the timing of the cash versus the expense, which could be different, by the way. And I think perhaps most importantly, how those investment plans affect our goals for subscriber and revenue growth, which is obviously the intent, the motivation behind any of those investments is to try to exceed some of the goals 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call that weve already set for ourselves. One other point that I think is important just to be aware of from a timing perspective, as I said, we are starting to fund some of these early initiatives this year. Though Id note that our expectations for full year OIBDA and free cash flow really havent changed materially because of the overperformance in Q1. So that is hopefully helpful to you in terms of thinking about some of the timing elements of this. Operator Our next question comes from the line of Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Bob, can you talk a little bit more about what we should be expecting with the June product? I dont know if you called it a relaunch or the new tier. Anything to add on distribution partners or kind of marketing push? And then Naveen, Id like to just take another swing at one of the topics from the Investor Day, which is your content spending company-wide. Post the capital raise, sitting here today, can you -- is there any way to help us think about how you think about the overall growth in content investment for ViacomCBS over the course of the sort of forecast period you talked about at Investor Day? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So well take this sequentially, Ben. So on the $4.99 product, were really excited about it. It obviously brings live sports, breaking news and amount of entertainment, including this expanded original slate, to the market, at a lower price point. Thats great from a consumer perspective. For us, it also has cost advantages, which improve margins versus the legacy $5.99 product, which we will be discontinuing from a new subscriber standpoint. If you step back from it, we believe 2 tiers of ParamountPlus really maximizes its ability to drive the total addressable market. Obviously, the lower price point at $4.99 is good for the more cost-sensitive consumer, and thus helps maximize total subscribers for ParamountPlus. It also adds another important asset for us in terms of advertising inventory. It will become part of IQ. And because theres so much opportunity in high-quality, premium streaming, digital advertising, we see the product actually generating higher ARPUs over time than the $9.99 product. So it really is quite exciting there. Id also point out that adding this to our quiver, broaden the portfolio we have to work with distributors to meet their objectives really strengthens our position as a supplier of choice. We add that to our existing offerings, both in free with Pluto TV and the Paramount and Showtime OTT and BET Plus pay products. Obviously, its at the lower end of the price point, so it could work for a subset of their consumer base. It also, related to the cost structure, gives us more flexibility on promotions. And so thats something were excited to deploy. And lastly, Id note, it will launch in early June with broad distribution. So very excited about the $4.99 product and how it will continue to drive ParamountPlus. Naveen? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. So on the content expense, as you will remember, Ben, from our Investor Day, we highlighted the fact that we expect streaming content expense to increase materially between 2020 and 2024. And Id say that our plan for this year, 2021, does incorporate some rapid progress in ramping up streaming content. In fact, streaming content expense in 2021, I think, will more than double relative to 2020. And now its important to remember that not all of the expense and cash impact is incremental to total company spend because we do expect to continue to reallocate content from linear to either a shared context where its doing double duty on both linear and streaming or exclusively on streaming. That being said, we do expect that what weve described as sort of roughly $15 billion of total company content expense to increase 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call modestly over the next few years. So not -- the entire amount of the increase of streaming investment will not be incremental to total company, but there will be some increase. Now thats all precapital raise. With the additional capital, we now have the ability to invest more aggressively. And so I would expect that streaming content expense and total company expense should be somewhat higher but very importantly, over time, generate return in the form of incremental subs, MAUs, streaming revenue. And as I said earlier, most of that impact will really start to be seen in 22 and beyond. And the piece that were funding in 21 as I said earlier, I think, is largely offset by some of the overperformance weve seen in Q1. Operator Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan. Alexia Skouras Quadrani - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Just staying on ParamountPlus. Weve seen some of your competitors experience a pull-forward and growth in subs on their streaming platforms during the pandemic. And in Q1, you had the benefit of substantial marketing push and the rebranding, which accelerated subscriber growth. Im curious how youre think -- how we should think about growth in subs at ParamountPlus over the next couple of quarters? And then my follow-up question is just sort of circling back to your comments on international expansion also on ParamountPlus. You highlighted a bunch of markets. You gave us some great color, which I really appreciate. Im curious where you see the biggest opportunity? What markets? And outside of Spanish language, are you ramping up in local language like your peers as well? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Alexia. Let me take both of those. So actually, I dont think a comparison to peer services and how they did or didnt pull forward subscriber growth with COVID is really the right question for us. And thats simply because ParamountPlus just launched, and so its in a bit of a different situation. With ParamountPlus, were ramping up product for new consumers. And so were focused on generating awareness to those consumers and obviously converting them into subscribers. To that end, were focused on executing against the content strategy that I articulated, the specific content additions that we talked about coming, in particular, as 2021 continues to play out as really the primary driver of growth. And Id remind you that the good news on that tip is that we have a really exciting content slate coming, whether you look at the kids space, things like new version of Rugrats, new version of iCarly, both of which are in the current quarter. And then, of course, Star Trek: Prodigy later in the year, and those are just examples. Scripted space, were -- Im super excited about the first Yellowstone spinoff. Thats something -- that franchise has a big fan base. And so Im bringing a new version exclusively to ParamountPlus late in the year, will be great. And that joins a whole bunch of other scripted shows, some that are coming back like Why Women Kill and Star Trek: Discovery. Reality, really a wheelhouse for us. And related to that, the music space, which is more general unscripted, I mean this Cradle to Stage show we have with Dave Grohl is cool. RuPaul has a huge fan base, so a new version of RuPaul coming, et cetera. And we got comedies, we talked about movies. Our movies push starting in June is massive. And by the way, its true to the Paramount name. So I think movies will have a great home and be a great product for ParamountPlus. All this content to varying degrees will be supporting with marketing to make sure, again, consumers have awareness, and we convert them into subscribers. The biggest piece probably will be our movie campaign, a mountain of movies, which is about to kick off. So you should look to us to continue to build our global sub base and actually accelerate revenue growth as the year goes on. To your second question on international. Look, this is something thats near and dear to my heart. I look at the international streaming opportunity, and its clearly global, and were going after it. As I mentioned, well now be in 45 markets by the end of 2022. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Content is, of course, key to that. And this company really has critical mass across genres and across geographies. And so that starts with the Viacom Media Networks, and that includes Channel 5, Network 10, Telefe, MTV, Nickelodeon, Comedy Central. They bring library. They bring local format derivatives, and they bring made-for-market local content. That library gets a scale out of the gate. The local content, both format and originals add really critical elements for subscriber acquisition and retention in many, many key markets. And Chilevisión adds another important piece to this equation. To your question, international content will also be an important part of fortifying the global ParamountPlus pipeline. Its not just about Spanish, I would highlight. Its about using our international studio assets to create a robust pipeline for ParamountPlus because those studio assets, outside the United States, bring benefits in terms of access to incremental creativity, really attractive economics. And they help us drive volume further faster. We mentioned -- and I mentioned it a bit in my prepared remarks. Were at the very early stages of bringing this to bear but its going to be another exciting piece of the equation. Add to that, of course, weve got output deals that routinely come up, giving us incremental access to content from Paramount and CBS and Showtime. So put it together, weve got a lot of content to work with outside the United States for ParamountPlus, and a lot more is coming. And when you look at international and ViacomCBS and ParamountPlus, its not just the content story. The other differentiating piece here is our on-the-ground operations, and they bring real additional advantages, unlocking that streaming opportunity. That starts with relationships, whether theyre creative or commercial, and you heard 2 examples of that coming to life in my remarks with Megacable and Mercado Libre. Hose are on-the-ground relationships that we were able to convert into streaming opportunity. As we look out, its possible that well do some partnerships in select international markets, additional markets. But net-net, I look at this, and Im super excited about the global opportunity for ViacomCBS and streaming. And we really do see a strong runway of growth outside the U.S. Operator Our next question comes from the line of Rich Greenfield with LightShed Partners. Richard Scott Greenfield - LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst A couple of them. First, I want to just dig in a little bit deeper into the comment about what people are actually doing on ParamountPlus. It seems like Nickelodeon, just looking at like sort of the top shows every day, seeing things like SpongeBob and Paw Patrol, it seems like they are driving a very substantial part of viewership. And wondering like when you look at sort of the promotion, you talked about sports and some of the stuff that you have, and you certainly have had some originals, but it looks like the kid stuff is really driving viewership. I guess a big picture question is like you said double digits. Like is it half is kids? Like how substantial is kids programming? And how do you get more viewership of some of the adult skewing? Id be curious how youre thinking about the marketing message because it seems like kids has been a very powerful force for you. And then I just want to follow-up on 2 things. One, you said -- you havent commented. Are ParamountPlus subs higher today than 36 million? Could you give us any clarity on that? And then I think you mentioned one movie, one original movie a week in 2022. Does that include the 45-day after movies that are coming out in theaters? Or is that a dedicated original movie every single week? I just wasnt clear what you meant by that. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure, Rich. A lot there. So on ParamountPlus and kids. Clearly, kids is working for us. And no, it is not half of the consumption. Again, material double-digit percentages, but nowhere near half. Whats driving that relative to the other, call it, genres and demographics, is really the fact that we were able to at launch provide not only critical massive library product, which we could do in other categories, but volume of exciting, exclusive original linked to known franchises. 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And that, in particular, was the combination of the SpongeBob movie, which obviously was a theatrical movie we chose to redeploy on ParamountPlus and the new SpongeBob series Camp Coral. We had that ready to go because we had a movie for theaters and because we had a series that we were going to launch on Nickelodeon, call it linear. As you look forward, those kind of things start to happen in the other genres. I mean, Im very excited about whats going on with reality. As you know, we launched with Real World New York. It was only a couple of episodes, so it wasnt really volume. And MTV The Challenge. There, there was a little more volume, but its the first series. As the year plays out, we basically have one new exclusive original in the reality space and unscripted space every month. So thats more fuel for that tank, and that should start converting that genre lane for ParamountPlus, and we will market that, particularly leveraging our linear networks and social, where we know those fan bases are. The other one Id really highlight is movies. I mean, we have movies on ParamountPlus, but frank -- today, but frankly, not that many of them. That game changes dramatically in June, where we first drop an additional 1,000, and theyre real movies. Theyre not deep library. Then we, late in June, have Infinite, which should create a lot of noise. Ive seen the film. Its fun film. People love Mark Wahlberg. And then that leads to more, I call it, library, again, not deep library, including pay 1 library in July and then Quiet Place on a short window from theatrical, leading into later in the summer, Paw Patrol. So we got a lot going on. And people love movies in premium television. They love movies in streaming. They already, based on engagement, love movies on ParamountPlus. We just dont have the volume were about to have. Let me use that to actually go to your third question for a second, which is around a movie a week. Does it include short window, pay 1 or not? Yes, it includes short window pay 1, call that a dozen pictures a year. The original movie per week will be an exciting movie per week. It will be a range of different kinds of movies. Some of them will be blockbusters that are heavily marketed from theatrical, the A Quiet Place 2-type films. Some of them -- the vast majority of them will be made for ParamountPlus. Those will be sourced from Paramount through our Paramount players, studio or substudio as well as through other studio operations we have, including Nickelodeon. As you know, we have the awesomeness side of Nickelodeon, which has done a great series of YA movies, including for streamers. So really excited about deploying that and getting that to have something on the platform every week thats fresh for someone to watch. Your second question, I have a mark here of 36 plus. Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. I think he was asking about subs post the end of the quarter. Were not providing any numbers, but just remember, the 36 is total global streaming subscribers, Rich, not just ParamountPlus. Operator Our next question comes from the line of John Janedis with Wolfe Research. John Janedis - Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Media Analyst Bob, a lot of questions coming up about the value of traditional leader networks and the historical pricing model breaking as direct-to-consumer rollouts accelerate. So I wanted to ask you, to what extent do you see changes in pricing for TV or cable networks as ParamountPlus scales into the tens of millions domestically? And then separately, how are you thinking about the go-to-market strategy and programming budget going forward for Showtime? Is a range of 10 to 15 originals a year in the ballpark? Or does that need to be stepped up? 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, John. So on your first question, Id start with the fact that ViacomCBS is a critically important content supplier to the MVPD ecosystem. Why do I say that? We do have the #1 linear portfolio on share, and we do lead on a range of key demographics. Within that, we have must-have content, including sports, including the NFL. Beyond that, we have a really broad opportunity to work with them to create value. And you see that, for example, as we deploy our assets in the advanced ad space. And we have advanced ad partnerships with most of the large MVPDs at this point. And more recently, weve become a supplier to the app space with both free and pay streaming products. And we supply those to both their set-top box and their broadband-only infrastructure, things like Flex. So that gives us even more to work with. And you look at 2020 and you look at through the first quarter of 2021, and you see that were using that asset base to consistently close deals. Deals with companies that are formidable, the likes of Comcast, Verizon, YouTube, Hulu. And when you take the contractual -- when you take that and then you combine the contractual rate increases for deals that are in flight, youve seen that drive affiliate growth and incremental distribution in linear. So its a powerful combination. As we look forward, including to a world, as you described, with D2C and ParamountPlus growing, et cetera, we like our position. We are among the most important content suppliers in the industry. We know how to get deals done. The addition of streaming, including ParamountPlus, gives us even more to work with. And remember, that helps us drive value for those customers and simultaneously helps them evolve their business as consumers increasingly embrace broadband versus, say, set-top box. And our ability to do that, in turn, drives real revenue and asset value for ViacomCBS. So yes, negotiations might be a little more complicated than they have been in the past, but I feel very good about our asset base. We have the best affiliate team in the business, and I feel great about the outlook of our partnerships with MVPDs. To your second question, Showtime, Showtime is on a really nice roll. It produces great content. And as we look at the segmentation of the consumer in the United States, theres no question that theres a significant market for a more upscale, more coastal, more R-rated offering, thats what premium is. And as you saw, Showtime really continued its great run in the first quarter. It had the top 2 scripted premium series with Your Honor and Shameless. It had record OTT sub growth and growth in total subscribers, and it had record engagement. So its working. The fundamental driver here is content, originals in particular, again, Shameless and Your Honor in the first quarter. Movies are important, too, as they always have been in the premium category. As we look forward with Showtime, because this is part of your question, we like our slate. We currently have about 10 or 12 tentpole series per year, and we support that or package that with 3 to 5 kind of lower-cost original series. Your look whats coming. Its the return of Dexter, its the return of billions. Its a new series called [American Russ] with Jeff Daniels, a new series called Yellow Jackets with Juliette Lewis and Christina Ricci. Its -- thats pretty hairy kind of series. Its about a plane crush in Latin America and a girls soccer team and kind of what happens in that. Were doing a great project on first ladies. You could think quasi-Crown of the U.S. and then starting with Viola Davis playing Michelle Obama, really excited about that. Were going to do a Ray Diamond movie. So the list goes on. And that product, by the way, is not only good for Showtime in the U.S. where it will continue to drive engagement and performance in the category, but its also going to increasingly benefit ParamountPlus outside the U.S. where Showtime product is an integral component of the offering. By the way, the movie outlook is good for Showtime, too, and we have optionality in-house. So were feeling great about Showtime, both stand-alone and as an integral part of ViacomCBS, including in streaming. So with that, in closing, I just want to say a couple of things. Clearly, very exciting times at ViacomCBS. We have strong operating momentum. We have amazing content, and we have a streaming strategy that is really delivering. You see all of that in our first quarter, and it really positions us well moving forward. As management, we have a focus on value creation and delivering for our shareholders. Thats true overall and certainly with respect to streaming as we build on these strong early results and momentum, particularly with respect to ParamountPlus. Its a differentiated product. Its a product with real competitive advantages, and were investing to deliver on its promise. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call So thank you for your time today. Thank you for your support. We look forward to continuing the dialogue as we execute and deliver on the ViacomCBS growth opportunity. And finally, Id like to thank all the Viacom CBS employees for all they do every day to drive our company forward. Stay well, everyone. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Thanks, Bob, and thank you all for joining us. That concludes our earnings call. Operator Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That concludes todays conference. You may now disconnect your lines, and have a wonderful day. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2021, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 14655098-2021-05-06T23:43:09.643 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MAY 06, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q1 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Paramount;Transcript;REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call EVENT DATE/TIME: AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM GMT OVERVIEW: Co. reported 2Q21 total Co. revenue of $6.6b and adjusted diluted EPS of $0.97. REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Anthony Joseph DiClemente ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Naveen Chopra ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Robert Marc Bakish ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Alexia Skouras Quadrani JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Benjamin Daniel Swinburne Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Brett Joseph Feldman Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Jessica Jean Reif Ehrlich BofA Securities, Research Division - MD in Equity Research John Janedis Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Media Analyst Michael C. Morris Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst Richard Scott Greenfield LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst Robert S. Fishman MoffettNathanson LLC - Analyst Vijay A. Jayant Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division - Senior MD and Head of Media, Entertainment, Cable, Satellite & Telecommunication PRESENTATION Operator Good day, everyone. Welcome to the Viacom Conference Call. Todays call is being recorded. At this time, Id like to turn the call over to Executive Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Anthony DiClemente. Please go ahead, sir. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Good morning, everyone. Thank you for taking the time to join us for our Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Call. Joining me for todays discussion are Bob Bakish, our President and CEO; and Naveen Chopra, our CFO. Please note that in addition to our earnings release, we have trending schedules containing supplemental information available on our website. I want to remind you that certain statements made on this call are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in more detail in our filings with the SEC. Some of todays financial remarks will focus on adjusted results. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings release or in our trending schedules, which contain supplemental information and, in each case, can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website. Now I will turn the call over to Bob. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. Im pleased to report that ViacomCBS once again delivered in the second quarter of 2021. The companys continued momentum is evident, from robust revenue growth in advertising and affiliate sales to a phenomenal content-driven trajectory of our flagship streaming services, ParamountPlus, Showtime OTT and Pluto TV, which clearly demonstrates that our streaming strategy across pay, premium and free is working, and we expect this momentum to continue in the second half of the year. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call On todays call, Ill cover 3 topics. First, Ill briefly discuss ViacomCBS strong Q2 results, where we reported operating strength and year-over-year revenue improvement. Second, Ill highlight the companys momentum in streaming and the underlying content drivers. And finally, Ill discuss our go-forward global streaming expansion. Then Ill hand it over to Naveen to provide additional financial and operational details before opening it up for Q&A. Let me start with the companys second quarter results, where we achieved another quarter of solid performance as total company revenue grew 8% year-over-year to $6.6 billion. Here, I want to highlight a few important items from an operating standpoint. In advertising, which, remember, excludes streaming, revenue grew 24%, benefiting from the return of a range of sports programming, a material improvement in the ad market and strong execution. Q2 2021 obviously looks very different than Q2 of 2020, and we were happy with our ability to convert this into strong revenue performance. Speaking of advertising, Im pleased to say we saw very strong demand in the upfront, which led to historic levels of linear price increases plus an ability to drive a significant volume towards our premium digital video inventory. The upfront was a perfect platform for ViacomCBS to unlock value from its leadership position, a position underpinned by premium content and a robust client-centric approach to ad solutions, combined with offerings spanning both linear and EyeQ, our premium digital video advertising platform, and the results speak for themselves. In affiliate, which also excludes streaming, revenue grew 9% for the quarter. And since the close of Q2, weve renewed and expanded multiyear distribution deals with both Charter Communications and Cox Communications. Our recent agreements demonstrate how these affiliate relationships have evolved to become more modernized and include streaming elements as well. These recent deals, along with others ViacomCBS has executed, including DISH, Verizon, YouTube TV and Hulu, further demonstrate the demand for our content and brands and the strength of our company. And in theatrical, revenue reached $134 million, thanks to theaters reopening and the success of A Quiet Place Part II, which is also now streaming on ParamountPlus. Speaking of streaming, we saw impressive global growth, with revenue almost doubling year-over-year to nearly $1 billion, with strong performance across all metrics. Streaming advertising revenue more than doubled year-over-year, reaching $502 million in the second quarter. This growth was led by Pluto TV, where global monthly active users grew to over $52 million and revenue more than doubled year-over-year for the fourth consecutive quarter. The growth is remarkable. And we now, in fact, expect Pluto TV to comfortably generate more than $1 billion in revenue this year. The power of Pluto TV is unquestionable. More consumers are spending more time with Pluto than ever, enjoying the now over 200,000 hours of content available on the platform in the U.S., which has doubled in the past year. And its integration into our advertising portfolio is compelling to our clients and the agencies that represent them, so its no surprise Pluto TV continues to be the leading free ad-supported streaming television service in the market. Streaming subscription revenue also accelerated, growing 82% year-over-year, driven by strong subscriber growth fueled by ParamountPlus. In the quarter, we added 6.5 million global streaming subscribers, our largest number yet, bringing our total global streaming subscribers to over 42 million. These results further demonstrate the strength of our diverse content portfolio and the universal appeal of ParamountPlus. Its clear ParamountPlus is resonating with consumers, both in the U.S. and internationally, and thats because its a differentiated product with real competitive advantages. It has something for everyone, and we saw strong subscriber acquisition and engagement across a variety of different genres. For kids and young adults, we saw tremendous viewership for the new iCarly series, which was a leading acquisition driver in the quarter and which was just renewed for season 2. We also saw continued strength from a range of kid-favorite Nickelodeon franchises, including SpongeBob, Rugrats, PAW Patrol and more. In film, Infinite, starring Mark Wahlberg, premiered exclusively on ParamountPlus in June and was one of the top engagement drivers. Additionally, we saw a nice uptick in overall film engagement with users as we added over 1,000 movies to our extensive film library. In sports and news, the UEFA Champions League was a top acquisition driver, while news, including CBSN, continues to generate meaningful engagement. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call In scripted, Why Women Kill, Evil and NCIS drove significant acquisition, engagement and consumption this quarter. NCIS, in particular, continues to perform well, now a top 5 driver of both engagement and consumption on the platform. And finally, unscripted has growing momentum, where shows with strong and devoted fan bases like RuPaul and The Challenge did very well in driving new subscribers and consumption, respectively. Add it up, and you see our strategy of building a multi-genre broad content offering is clearly working. And as the breadth of content expands, the average age on ParamountPlus continues to get younger, decreasing 2 years since last quarter to 35. In fact, this diverse array of content often appeals to multiple people in the same household and can, therefore, be a powerful tool to not only drive subscribers, but also reduce churn over time. In short, by putting the full power of ViacomCBS behind ParamountPlus, were beginning to see the massive potential this service has. Also, in June, we launched the ad-supported ParamountPlus Essential plan. This version of ParamountPlus has a lower price point of $4.99 a month, appealing to more cost-conscious consumers and thereby increasing the size of ParamountPluss total addressable market. In addition, it provides advertisers with a new option to reach valuable consumers in a high-quality environment, something our recent upfront experience demonstrated was very compelling. While its early days, ParamountPlus is clearly working, which is why were continuing to invest to deliver on its promise and potential. To that end, looking ahead, we have amazing content coming to the service, and we will continue to scale volume across the range of genres that together differentiate ParamountPlus: kids, sports, unscripted, scripted and film. To give you a sense, here are some examples of whats coming to the service between now and the end of the year. Right now, in film, were streaming A Quiet Place Part II. This is the first title in our fast follow from theatrical strategy, and it is doing very well. On August 20, PAW Patrol: The Movie will premiere day-and-date in both theaters and on ParamountPlus. Were excited about a day-and-date strategy for this title and this audience in todays marketplace, and were supporting it with a robust marketing campaign, which includes our consumer products presence at retail. In sports, were thrilled that a new season of Serie A soccer, our first with the franchise, will begin in late August. And weve also recently added new seasons of compelling reality and docuseries to the service, including Big Brother, Love Island and, just last week, the return of the iconic Behind the Music series. Of course, in September, we have the return of the NFL, and the folks at CBS and ParamountPlus are gearing up for some amazing collaboration. Additionally, we have a great fall lineup on CBS, including the expansion of some key franchises like NCIS: Hawaii, CSI: Vegas and FBI: International, all of which are also streaming on ParamountPlus. And Im thrilled to announce that weve extended our deal with Trey Parker and Matt Stone through 2027, bringing South Park to Comedy Central through season 30. In addition, Trey and Matt will be doing 14 South Park original movies exclusively for ParamountPlus, 2 of which will premiere this year and then 2 more every year through the term of the deal. And later this year, we have big new scripted series premiering like Taylor Sheridans Y: 1883, the origin story of the #1 scripted show on cable, Yellowstone, as well as Taylors newest series, Mayor of Kingstown, and more. From a promotional standpoint, well leverage our linear platforms as subscriber acquisition vehicles. For example, Y: 1883 and Mayor of Kingstown will premiere on the Paramount network behind Yellowstone for 2 episodes each, then move over exclusively to ParamountPlus. We will use the same strategy on CBS with SEAL Team. Turning to premium streaming. Showtime OTT had another strong quarter, delivering one of the best quarters for sign-ups, while generating its second best quarter ever for streams and hours watched on the service. Viewers were highly engaged, driven by hits like the fourth season of The Chi, the series finale of Shameless and the Floyd Mayweather vs. Logan Paul boxing event, among others. Looking forward, the content lineup for Showtime is strong. We have the premiere of Yellowjackets, a dramatic show that is part psychological horror, part survival story. We also have the return of Dexter and Billions, both of which will have some creative product and marketing campaigns associated with these next seasons. In fact, Billions promotional campaign will include availability on ParamountPlus, where we will have the first 3 seasons. In addition, well offer a bundle of Showtime in ParamountPlus at a discounted price to expand the reach of both services. 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call That brings me to my third topic, global expansion. ViacomCBS has long been active outside of the United States, with operations on the ground all around the world. That global orientation now encompasses streaming, where we are leveraging our existing business footprint and relationships to enable rapid expansion of our streaming offerings. As an example, today, were pleased to announce a new comprehensive and expanded deal with Sky, covering the U.K., Italy, Ireland, Germany, Switzerland and Austria. This deal includes carriage renewals for our linear services as well as renewals for our existing ad sales representation deals, plus robust launches of our streaming services to their sub base in all the countries in 2022. This is a powerful deal. Not only does it extend important benefits and economics from our legacy business, but its also a game changer for ParamountPlus in these markets by unlocking previously exclusive-to-Sky content for use on ParamountPlus and providing ParamountPlus with a very significant subscriber base at launch. In these markets, from a content perspective, ParamountPlus will be the exclusive home for new Showtime series and ParamountPlus originals. It will be the co-exclusive with Sky, home of Paramount Pay1 movies. This service will also be the exclusive streaming home of our most popular kid franchises, PAW Patrol and SpongeBob Squarepants. And it will have a very substantial library offering from across ViacomCBS. What excites me is our ability to work with a key partner, supporting both the traditional ecosystem and in transitioning consumers from linear to streaming in a way that is accretive to ARPU. Importantly, the deal preserves our ability to pursue D2C opportunities in these markets. Stepping back to the big picture. With our upcoming launch in Australia and New Zealand, Im thrilled to report weve reached our goal of expanding ParamountPlus into 25 markets in 2021, and were well on our way to 45 markets by the end of 2022. Simultaneously, were continuing to drive Plutos international growth. We recently launched on [Klara] Android in Brazil, a mobile service with an eligible user base of 32 million users. And in 2022, we expect Pluto TV to launch in additional markets, including the Nordics, Benelux, Canada, Poland and more. Were thrilled with our international streaming progress and momentum in Q2. And we continue to see a massive opportunity to capitalize on our global content capabilities and infrastructure to further capture the global streaming opportunity. I know from my decade running our international business that every market is different and often requires different strategies and partnerships to succeed. We are executing with that in mind. And for sure, you will see us continue to lean in and allocate capital to what is a very large and high-growth total addressable market in streaming internationally. With that, Ill hand it over to Naveen to dive into our financials. Naveen? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Thank you, Bob, and good morning, everyone. As Bob mentioned, our second quarter results were highlighted by robust growth in streaming, where we had another quarter of record subscriber additions. Growth rates for both streaming subscription and streaming advertising revenue accelerated from their already strong Q1 levels, taking overall streaming revenue to 92% year-on-year growth. Q2 also benefited from strong performance in advertising and affiliate revenue. Ill unpack our streaming results by sharing additional color on audience growth, engagement and monetization, starting with our subscription businesses and then moving to our ad-supported services. We added 6.5 million global streaming subscribers in the quarter, taking us to more than 42 million global streaming subscribers. Showtime OTT enjoyed one of its best quarters ever in terms of new sign-ups, but like last quarter, the significant majority of our new subscribers were from ParamountPlus, including a mix of both domestic and international subscribers. In fact, we are increasingly bullish about the international market opportunity for ParamountPlus, as evidenced by our Q2 results, and our newly announced partnership with Sky. Financially speaking, this type of deal provides a capital-efficient way for us to quickly build scale and awareness in new markets. Bundles with international partners bring low churn and highly efficient acquisition costs. Moreover, as Bob pointed out, ARPUs are meaningfully accretive to the linear affiliate revenue we are replacing. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call In addition to strong subscriber growth, we also saw continued improvement in customer engagement and retention as the breadth of our content portfolio continues to expand. For example, for ParamountPlus, domestic trial-to-pay conversion, monthly hours per active and monthly churn all improved measurably in Q2 on both a sequential basis and year-over-year. In terms of monetization, we saw healthy streaming subscription ARPU growth of 4% in Q2 versus the Q1 level. The combination of strong subscriber growth and increased engagement powered year-over-year streaming subscription revenue growth of 82% to $481 million. Moving on to streaming advertising. Here, our growth was led by Pluto TV. As of quarter end, Pluto TV reached more than 52 million global MAUs across 25 countries. Plutos revenue grew 169% in the quarter. This tremendous expansion of the business has been driven by growth in users, engagement and sell-through. Domestic watch time per MAU increased 45% year-over-year in Q2, and Pluto TV domestic ARPU more than doubled year-over-year, benefiting from a double-digit percentage increase in effective CPMs and significant improvement in sell-through. This enhanced monetization reflects both strong demand for Pluto TVs high-quality connected TV inventory and efficiency benefits from the Q2 launch of open header bidding. While Pluto remains the largest component of our EyeQ digital advertising platform, we are optimistic about the growth potential for advertising on ParamountPlus, and early results are encouraging. In fact, in Q2, ParamountPlus domestic advertising revenue more than doubled versus a year ago, benefiting from user growth, along with a high teens percentage increase in streaming advertising ARPU per active sub. We believe were just scratching the surface of the ParamountPlus advertising opportunity as user and engagement growth, alongside product enhancements, should add supply for this highly valuable digital video inventory. When you put it all together, this quarter, the combination of Pluto TV, ParamountPlus and other EyeQ platforms drove streaming advertising revenue to $502 million, representing 102% year-over-year growth. Advertising revenue, which excludes streaming, grew 24% in Q2 to $2.1 billion, benefiting from both the return of the NCAA mens basketball tournament as well as timing shifts of this years professional golf tournaments. This quarters strong growth rate was also a function of improvement in demand and record scatter pricing compared with the COVID-impacted quarter a year ago. Affiliate revenue, which excludes streaming, grew 9% to $2.1 billion, where we benefited from distribution deals and renewals that provide incremental carriage and improved economics, which more than offset changes in the number of pay television subscribers. Even excluding the impact of incremental distribution deals, we saw modest improvements in subscriber trends in Q2 as we did in Q1. Licensing and other revenue fell 36% to $1.2 billion as the year-ago period included a significant licensing deal for South Park. Adjusting for the 21 percentage point impact of the South Park deal, licensing and other revenue would have been down about 15%, which reflects COVID-impacted content availability and our ongoing efforts to limit licensing to third-party streaming services. Total company revenue grew 8% year-over-year to $6.6 billion. Adjusted OIBDA fell 25% to $1.2 billion in the quarter. Again, year-over-year growth rates for revenue and adjusted OIBDA were impacted by the comparison to the year-ago period, which included a significant contribution from the licensing of South Park. Excluding the 9 and 30 percentage point South Park impact, respectively, Q2 revenue growth would have been 17% year-over-year and adjusted OIBDA growth would have been 5% year-over-year, as revenue growth and ongoing cost management more than offset increased investment in streaming. Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.97 in the quarter and Q2 adjusted free cash flow was $75 million. Moving to the balance sheet. We finished the quarter with $5.4 billion of cash on hand and total long-term debt of $17.7 billion. This translates to a 2.4x net leverage ratio as of June 30. We have significant financial flexibility, which will increase with net proceeds of $2 billion from the sale of Simon & Schuster, which is on track to close in 2021, subject to regulatory approval. We continue to believe investing in our streaming growth opportunity is our best use of capital, and we are starting to execute across the streaming growth vectors we previously described. As Bob highlighted, we are investing even more in original content for ParamountPlus. Our long-term 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call multi-format deals with Alex Kurtzman, Taylor Sheridan and the creators of South Park exemplify compelling opportunities to bring heavyweight franchise IP with global appeal exclusively to ParamountPlus. We are accelerating international expansion, as evidenced by our plan to launch ParamountPlus in 45 markets by the end of 2022, and aided by strategic partnerships like the one we announced with Sky today, which will accelerate our growth plans in the U.K., Italy and Germany. And we continue to reduce the amount of original content we make for and license to third-party streamers, instead focusing more of our creative assets on in-house streaming services. Beyond investing in streaming, we used excess cash to pay our dividend, manage leverage and fund opportunistic M&A, which bolsters our streaming growth ambitions, similar to our 2020 investment in Miramax and our pending acquisition of Chilevisión, which we anticipate closing in Q3. Looking ahead to the third quarter, we expect to see continued strong year-over-year streaming growth in both the subscription and advertising parts of the business. In Q3, ParamountPlus will benefit from the strong content lineup Bob described as well as the rollout of our Showtime ParamountPlus bundle. International growth will be aided by our launch of ParamountPlus in Australia and the launch of additional distribution partnerships. And we expect Pluto TV to see continued growth in engagement and further improvement in monetization, in addition to MAU growth from international market launches as it continues the march to over $1 billion in revenue for full year 2021. Advertising in the back half of the year will continue to benefit from a robust market. So year-on-year trends will be compared to the return of demand in Q3 2020 as we ramped out of COVID and benefited from record political spend. Advertising growth will improve when new upfront pricing kicks in for Q4. We expect affiliate revenue growth in the back half of 21 to slow as we lap the benefit of new distribution from YouTube TV and the timing of other affiliate renewals, which started in Q2 of 2020. We expect to return to growth in content licensing revenue, largely driven by increased licensing of TV content for linear distribution. Looking further out, our enthusiasm for streaming continues to grow. Streaming revenue and subscriber growth are pacing ahead of our expectations, and streaming will represent close to 15% of total company revenue in 2021 and will become an even bigger share of revenue next year. This momentum tells us that our investment thesis is solid and can unlock significant incremental growth. In pursuit of this growth, we continue to expect streaming content expense will more than double in 2021 relative to our 2020 spend as we deliberately transition linear content expense to streaming content expense. We are confident the streaming investments we are making will yield compelling ROI. You can see some of the early proof points in this quarters results, and we are bullish about where we can go from here. Moreover, we are excited about the long-term shareholder value we can create. With that, lets open the call for questions. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Operator, well take our first question. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Operator (technical difficulty) 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director We cant hear the question. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Operator? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Operator -- Brett Feldman, are you live? If so, go ahead with your question. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Operator? Operator, we heard a little bit of noise. Are you there? Guys, were trying to resolve a problem -- a technical problem with the operator. So hopefully, you can hear us. The operator is working on it. Just hang with us. Thank you. Operator Gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Mr. Feldman, were going to try Mr. Feldman. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Great. Can you guys hear me okay? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Anthony Joseph DiClemente - ViacomCBS Inc. - EVP of IR Yes, we can. Sorry about that. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Outstanding. All right. Two questions, if you dont mind. The first one is for Bob. The sector is obviously seeing continued M&A, and your company has been cited as a potential merger partner in a lot of these media reports. So my first question for you is, do you need more scale? And how do you think about the merits of gaining it via M&A or partnerships? 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And then the second question is for Naveen. I was hoping you can give us a little bit of insight on the uptake that youve seen in the new ad-light tier ParamountPlus. Was it meaningful to the net adds you had in the quarter? And any insight you can give on where the ARPU is trending there would be appreciated. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes, sure, Brett. Let me take the first part. So look, we continue to be extremely excited about the momentum and go-forward potential of our organic strategy as we leverage the assets of ViacomCBS to create value overall. And certainly, with respect to streaming, the Q2 metrics clearly point to this strength and the ongoing potential of our organic approach. Now the fact is the merger of Viacom and CBS was a transformative transaction, and we continue to successfully create value from it. We believe organic execution continues to be the right path for ViacomCBS and our shareholders. But of course, we will always evaluate any opportunities through our shareholder value creation lens. Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. And regarding the Essential plan, were very excited about being able to launch that this quarter. We think it expands the ParamountPlus proposition to an even greater set of different customers. And from our perspective, were actually very happy for people to sign up for either our Premium or Essential tier. We want them in the plan thats going to be the stickiest for them because, in the long run, we know that we maximize lifetime value based on the expected life of our customers. Its also important to recognize that the ARPUs between each of those tiers are actually not as different as you might think because of the advertising contribution from the Essential tier. And those ARPUs, actually both the subscription and the combined advertising and subscription in the Essential tier, are growing both domestically and internationally. And we think that they have material future upside potential, both through evolution of pricing and also significant upside in the ad monetization. So we like how Essentials is progressing, and we think its going to be very additive to our strategy. Operator The next analyst is Michael Morris with Guggenheim. Michael C. Morris - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst I have 2 questions as well. My first, maybe for Bob, is if you could share some more detail on the Sky partnership that was announced. I know there can be a lot of complexity in these agreements. So any additional thoughts on timing within 2022, your promotional plans, affiliate ad mix, things like that to help us understand the go-to-market would be great. And my second question is for Naveen. Looking for maybe a little more detail on the domestic trends at ParamountPlus. Curious how churn has trended engagement maybe compared to All Access, just to give us some historical precedent, or anything else you can share there and how youre thinking about the cadence of the drivers for the balance of the year. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Michael. So just to frame it, our streaming strategy overall is to access the largest total addressable market and do so by leveraging the full power of ViacomCBS. That obviously means global. So international is a key component, including critical scale markets like the U.K., Germany and Italy. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call The good news is we have a long, mutually productive, value-creating history with Sky. And to that end, we saw a compelling opportunity to use renewals in the U.K., Italy and Germany to both elongate and continue to transform our business and specifically accelerate our streaming strategy. On streaming, youll see us launch ParamountPlus in 2022 to the subscriber base on the Sky Cinema tier, and then it will be à la carte on top of that in all of those markets, which will be a very meaningful sub catalyst in 2022. And as I said in my prepared remarks, part of this deal was unlocking some previous exclusive to Sky content. So in addition to the distribution boost, it really makes our product even more compelling. All that said, and Im not going to comment on real contract specifics, I will tell you were happy with the economics. We see this deal as a meaningful, predictable ParamountPlus subscriber accelerate in all those markets and one with a compelling churn reduction dynamic. And importantly, the deal does not prevent us from pursuing the broader D2C opportunity in these markets. So this is an awesome deal for us, and its an example of leveraging the full power of ViacomCBS, including existing relationships to accelerate our streaming business, and thats something were going to look to continue to do. Naveen? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. And going to the engagement question. As we mentioned on the call, the metrics on that front for ParamountPlus are improving very nicely. And I think its all content-driven as the diversity of content available on the service continues to evolve. And thats been driving, as I highlighted, improvements in conversion, improvements in hours per active, improvements in monthly churn. And we continue to focus on optimizing all of those going forward, and it will be very much content-driven. We think about our content through 3 different dimensions. We think about what drives acquisition, what drives engagement and what drives consumption, a.k.a. time spent watching. And different content performs differently. Kids and family content, as an example, is a big acquisition driver. And theatrical movies drive a lot of engagement. And things with large libraries, well-known titles, think something like a Survivor, can be a top consumption driver. So were going to continue to press on all of those dimensions. You got to nail acquisition engagement and consumption to have a healthy subscription business. And we think were in a very strong position to be able to continue doing that. And the metrics from Q2 prove were moving in the right direction. Operator The next question is from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan. Alexia Skouras Quadrani - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD and Senior Analyst My question is really on your film strategy. Your thoughts on the health of the box office as a profit driver for Paramount longer term, do you still see it as a big driver of growth longer term? And then sort of staying on your film business. I think you recently made some changes. I think you pulled Clifford from the film site because of the delta variant, I assume, including topics on day-and-date. I guess Im curious if you see the 45-day [theatrical] window eventually for all your major films, or will it be decided by film-by-film basis? I guess Im trying to get a sense if this is still COVID-related changes? Or youll kind of go back and forth longer term depending on what your thoughts on the outlook? 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Alexia. So look, the film business is strategically important to ViacomCBS. Movies work well on multiple platforms, including, of course, streaming, where our early experience with ParamountPlus, and you heard some remarks on that already, is strong. One of the things that we have today is more optionality with how we use films. We have more ways to use them than ever, which better leverages our investment, and you see that in us putting the product to use in a multifaceted way. Some product like A Quiet Place II with its 45-day window is a fast follow on ParamountPlus. We like that. Some product is ParamountPlus exclusive like what we did with Infinite, and in a lower budget way like what well do with the upcoming Paranormal Activity film. Some will be day-and-date with streaming and theatrical like the upcoming PAW Patrol movie. And its really this mix of approaches thats intended to optimize the use of our product, including driving both subscribers and box office, and provide learnings, which we can use to continue to shape our future mix. Importantly, as we do all this, we do consider the impact on all constituents as we look at individual to titles. On your COVID question, look, we obviously track the market very carefully and the situation is a bit fluid. As a general principle, we do like the 45-day fast follow theatrical to Pay1, and that is the overall direction wed like to go over time. But we got to look at each title in this pandemic and figure out what is the right strategy at this point in time. And that results in us delaying some titles, moving forward to the traditional theatrical release, doing something exclusively on streaming or doing it day-to-day, and again, theres obviously a lot of considerations on that. But we like films. Theyre strategically important. We see tremendous value, and we have more levers to pull than ever. Operator Next question comes from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Two questions. ARPU on streaming was quite strong. As you guys highlighted, it was up nicely Q-on-Q and year-on-year. Can you talk about the outlook there? As you move more international, and it sounded like youre incrementally bullish internationally, does that put any pressure on it? Or are you feeling like ARPU continue to sort of grind higher over time? Just give us a little sense of the drivers there and how youre thinking about it. And then Naveen, on free cash flow, $1.7 billion first half of the year. I think the expectations out there are that it will be less than that for the full year. Just any update on free cash flow expectations. Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes, Ben, so Ill start with your question on ARPU and then touch on free cash flow. So as you pointed out, subscription ARPU in Q2 saw some very nice sequential improvement. And Id point out that, that improvement happened both with respect to domestic ARPU and international ARPU. And I think, going forward, its important to think about those 2 things somewhat independently because the drivers are a little different. Domestic ARPU will benefit from continued conversion of trial subs into pay subs. And it will also be influenced by the mix of subs between our Essential and Premium tiers. But as I said earlier, its important to remember that the real ARPU coming out of our Essential tier includes both subscription and advertising revenues. So in the long term, we think that the Essential tier can actually be accretive to overall ARPUs on ParamountPlus. 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call On the international side, the next wave of countries that were going to be launching, which are primarily in Europe and Australia, are higher ARPU markets than where weve been to date, which has been primarily Latin America. So that should be accretive to ARPU. And in fact, the deal we announced with Sky today is a great example of that. With that deal, we will quickly add millions of subscribers in the U.K. when it launches. And those subs would be accretive to both our current international streaming ARPU and the ARPUs that we generate on the linear affiliate side today. In terms of free cash flow, Id say a couple of things. Number one, as weve said before, we are increasing investment -- streaming investment for content. Youve heard me mention before that we expect that investment to more than double this year relative to 2020. Again, not all of it is incremental on a total company basis because theres a lot of remixing between linear and streaming, and weve got content that does double duty. But were also doing well in terms of being ahead of our plan on revenue and subs and continuing to find ways to drive operating leverage out of the business. So the result of all that, I think, in terms of free cash flow, obviously, that will mean that there is some working capital needs going forward, both to scale that production on the streaming side. And also, just generally, as we transition out of COVID, some of the tailwinds that weve had from a cash flow perspective in 2020 and the first half of this year probably start to dissipate. Operator Our next question is from Rich Greenfield with LightShed Partners. Richard Scott Greenfield - LightShed Partners - Partner and Media & Technology Analyst I guess I just want to follow up on Alexias question. Just as you think about sort of things like Snake Eyes, which, obviously, youre struggling at the box office just given the health of U.S. box office. I mean even the 2 biggest films to date, I think, have only done domestically $170 million or $175 million sort of looks like the peak. And so it just doesnt seem like box office dollars are there the way they used to. And I guess, Bob, you sort of alluded to other strategies. But Im just wondering, youve got 2 other companies, one in Disney doing sort of a $30 day-and-date Premium access, and youve got Warner Bros. sort of throwing them in at no extra cost Netflix-style and HBO Max. Wed just sort of love your view, given that it looks like things are getting worse again rather than better, from an attendance standpoint. Is there one of those that you prefer or one of those that you think makes more sense for Paramount? And then just, I guess, for Bob, specifically, to me, Nick seems like one of the most important assets when I think about the creation of franchises and what its doing for your streaming service. I was wondering sort of how you think about the IP creation -- new IP creation at Nickelodeon over the past year and what you see coming over the course of the next year that we should keep our eye on. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Rich. So look, on the film side, I will say, at this point in time, on a macro basis, we think the fast follow from theatrical, the 45-day window, 30- to 45-day window that we did our first implementation with, with A Quiet Place II is the sweet spot of the model because it provides a theatrical opportunity for consumers. It lets us benefit from that market, and then it quickly moves the product to streaming, in this case, ParamountPlus, to drive subscribers there. And again, we only have one film weve done it with, and it hasnt gone through the life of the title yet, but we like what were seeing. So Id say on a macro level, we like that. That said, to your point, we continue to be in COVID. That situation is a bit fluid. And so we are looking title by title. And its part of the reason we looked at -- were doing a day-and-date with PAW Patrol, as we said, for that audience, i.e., families with young children. Right now, in the middle of COVID, or at least partially still in COVID, we wanted to provide both choices for consumers because that we think gets it to the largest potential consumer base, which is not only good for that movie, but also good for the consumer products business that wraps around it. And by the way, if youve been inside a Walmart or Target or what have you, youll see strong PAW Patrol: The Movie marketing available 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call in theaters, where ParamountPlus or AM ParamountPlus as part of that signage. So we really like that strategy for that title. And well make decisions title by title going forward as we continue to be in this COVID-influenced market. Now with respect to Nick and IP, let me start by saying, big picture, we really are big believers in franchises and their associated value. They have broad consumer appeal and awareness. You can do all kinds of things with them creatively. They obviously have commercial potential, including extensibility to things like consumer products, and they tend to play globally. So we like franchises. Nickelodeon is a great example of franchise, and were going to continue to optimize and drive that franchise machine. Youve seen us do that a bit recently this year, including with ParamountPlus. ParamountPlus really launched with the SpongeBob franchise, taking the SpongeBob Movie and then having the first episodic spinout in Kamp Koral. Were very pleased with that. In the quarter, iCarly, the reboot of iCarly was a total home run. Thats obviously a live action franchise versus an animated franchise that appeals to a little bit older audience. But theres no question that worked. And in talking to Brian and working with him, Brian Robbins who runs Nickelodeon, weve got a very significant franchise plan ahead of us. One example of that is weve now set up Avatar Studios. That has tremendous potential as an umbrella franchise with all kind of sub-franchises inside of it. Obviously, PAW Patrol: The Movie, which I referenced, and the film side of it, thats another example of franchise growth. So theres a lot to do there. But I would also say, Rich, its not just about Nickelodeon. Look what were doing more broadly, including on ParamountPlus, whether thats Y: 1883, which is the Yellowstone prequel. That, by the way, stars Faith Hill and Tim McGraw. And thats going to premiere behind Yellowstone for 2 episodes on Paramount Network before moving exclusively to ParamountPlus. Were doing a bunch of stuff in unscripted. So the franchise play is broad. Certainly, Nickelodeon is the visible and powerful piece, but it goes much beyond that. And by the way, one thing Im actually really excited about for next year on ParamountPlus is Halo. Thats a big game franchise. Were doing a pretty wild live action episodic out of it. Ive seen early pieces of it, it looks spectacular. So franchises are key. Yes, Nickelodeon is the core, but its bigger than that. Operator The next question is from Jessica Reif Ehrlich of Bank of America. Jessica Jean Reif Ehrlich - BofA Securities, Research Division - MD in Equity Research My question is advertising-related, I guess, a couple of parts to it. Given Naveens comment about ad-light ARPU upside, Im wondering, why dont you push that more? Or can you push that more? Is there any difference in contribution margin? I mean it just seems like the ARPU from that product could be higher than subscription. And then on -- more generally, on advertising overall and the historically strong upfront that we just saw, can you give us like deeper color across all of your assets, national and local and international, in terms of where you see advertising going over the next few quarters? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Jessica. Lets do it in reverse order. Let me talk about advertising big picture and then have Naveen add some color around your question of ARPU, et cetera. So to your point, and our remarks, were very happy with what were seeing in the ad market. Were clearly benefiting from our leadership position there in. The upfront, as expected, was particularly strong this year. Part of that, of course, was a function of supply and demand at the market level: supply, particularly on linear being tight; and demand is strong, given the outgoing ramp out of COVID. 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call That obviously set the stage for very strong and, arguably, historic linear prices increases. And those increases were what we delivered and those will largely kick in, in Q4. But its not just market. There are also real ViacomCBS elements in play here. We obviously benefit from a portfolio, which includes premium content, both in the mass market and targeted spaces, including with young and diverse audiences. We have leadership both on the linear side and with EyeQ on the digital video side. EyeQ, in particular, on a long-term basis and in this upfront is really important because it provides a large volume of high-quality impressions, which more than offset the linear supply dynamics and drive overall advertising revenue. And critical to all of that is our executing as a single sales organization. That allows clients and their agencies really turnkey access to the portfolio through a single point of contact. So very pleased with what were seeing in the ad market. Very pleased with the upfront, really a case study of the strength of ViacomCBS and our ability to differentiate ourselves and grow on an ongoing basis. Naveen? Naveen Chopra - ViacomCBS Inc. - Executive VP & CFO Yes. So as it relates to the interplay between the Essentials tier and the Premium tier and sort of steering customers to one or the other, I would reiterate that we are focused on maximizing the lifetime value of each of our subscribers. And given what I noted earlier about the fact that the ARPU and the contribution margin of each of those tiers is not that different and likely will converge over time. Ultimately, what matters in that lifetime value equation is the expected life of our customers. So we want the customer in whichever tier they are going to be the most sticky in. And thats how were operating those services today. Operator The next question is from Vijay Jayant with Evercore. Vijay A. Jayant - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division - Senior MD and Head of Media, Entertainment, Cable, Satellite & Telecommunication So Bob, you talked about the carriage deals youve announced with Charter, Cox and now with Sky. And one of the deals sort of mentioned your deals are sort of the modern era deals. So can you sort of talk about whats the evolution there in terms of economics or flexibility that has to happen to make this sort of a win-win situation? And really, how key is the legacy MVPD relationships to grow ParamountPlus going forward? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure, Vijay. So let me start by saying were extremely pleased with where we are from an affiliate perspective and see this multi-quarter track record that weve put on the boards of affiliate renewal after affiliate renewal as overwhelming evidence of the strength of ViacomCBS. ViacomCBS, really, is a cornerstone provider to the distribution community. And yes, that started way back when with the provision of linear feeds, probably 5 or 6 years ago. That expanded to include advanced advertising partnerships, which were mutually beneficial. And now its incorporating streaming as a fundamental element. And so we are working with MVPDs to advance our streaming benefit for both of our benefit, and were doing that across free and pay. Were doing that across set-top box and broadband-only. And the recent examples of that are Charter and Cox, where streaming was certainly additive and mutually beneficial. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call And then todays announcement, Sky, same thing. So it really is a modernization, a broadening, making these partnerships even stronger as we, together, transform the benefit and for Viacom -- the business and for ViacomCBS, really, accelerate the growth of our streaming portfolio. So were feeling great about it, Vijay. Operator Next question is from John Janedis with Wolfe Research. John Janedis - Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Media Analyst Bob, maybe one for you. With your comments on ParamountPlus and coming out of the upfront, can you give us more of an update on your digital advertising strategy? I dont know if you separate the dollars between ParamountPlus, DTV and Pluto, but maybe, even directionally, what are you targeting for digital as a percent of the total? And do the CPM increases that CBS provide some form of a tailwind or upside for price increases? Or do you go for volume in the short term? And then maybe a quickie on Pluto. With the growth there still really strong, have you seen any changes in either the economics of the business or content availability? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes, sure. So John, so on the ad side and, in particular, the role of digital, look, we believe its fundamental. We made that decision at Viacom legacy a number of years ago. Among other things, that drove us to do the Pluto acquisition, which, by the way, has turned out to be a total home run. I would point out that when we acquired Pluto at the beginning of 19, it came off a 2018 revenue base of $70 million. This -- in this third year of owning it, it will do over $1 billion. That sounds like a very robust growth to me. So were thrilled we have it. Pluto is part of what we call EyeQ, which is our overall digital video advertising portfolio. It has proven to be a great source of high-quality impressions in high-quality environments. In a world where theres -- I mean thats compelling on a stand-alone basis, but also in a world where there is linear supply constraints, its really in combination that it has turned out to be extremely powerful. Over time, the videos -- the digital video side will continue to increase as a percentage of our overall mix. As we package and, in some cases, transition advertisers from scarce, high-priced linear to more available, high-quality digital, but by the way, do it in a way where were very careful in delivering the right mix of reach and frequency and, among other things, we went to a unified ad server in the last couple of months, which really helps us with that. So very excited about where we are today with the digital video advertising as a component of ViacomCBS and believe it has long legs for growth going forward. On the Pluto side, let me just briefly say, again, the overall trajectory of Pluto is amazing. We have, as I mentioned, continued to add quality -- high-quality content to Pluto. In the last year, in the U.S., weve doubled the number of hours from 100,000 hours to 200,000 hours. A chunk of that is certainly ViacomCBS, but a bunch of that is third party as well. And the third parties are really seeing the power of the Pluto platform, too, because it is a very effective reach and, importantly, monetization. Because ultimately, people are in it to make money, monetization vehicle for them, which is why you see us continue to add to the product across a full range of genres. So Pluto TV continues to be on an amazing trajectory, obviously expanding all around the world off of its #1 FAST service in the U.S. position. And that one, too, has a long positive growth road ahead of it. Operator That question is from the line of Robert Fishman with MoffettNathanson. 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Robert S. Fishman - MoffettNathanson LLC - Analyst Can you expand on how sports at ParamountPlus has driven subscriber additions and engagement and whether you think that will impact future sports rights deals going exclusively to streaming? And then just as a quick follow-up on Pluto. Do you see this as a winner-take-all type of market? Or will viewers just jump around to the different services to find the different original and exclusive content? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So in that order, so sports are fundamental to ParamountPlus. Again, we think of ParamountPlus as live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment. If you look at our experience in Q1 and Q2, it clearly points to the value of sports. Theres no question the NFL makes a difference. And part of our long-term renewal with the NFL some months ago was, of course, ensuring rights for ParamountPlus. By the way, both the $9.99 and the $4.99 product, $4.99 product doesnt have the linear feed. So we had to do some work with the NFL, and we did. Soccer is making a difference, and you see us growing our collection there. Im really looking forward to see what Serie A does very shortly. That will be our first season with that. Thats the Italian league. Golf, too, makes a difference. They all contribute to ParamountPlus. They all broadened its appeal to specific market sectors. But I think, also, importantly, they work in what we would call a conjoint way with entertainment. There are sports fans out there, and they also love entertainment. And so as we ensure that the product is sticky, as we optimize monetization, having a strong entertainment offering to go with the sports offering is very important. And again, while early days, were seeing really value -- clear value there. And its obviously a critical extension of CBS Sports and the modernization of that into the streaming world. So we like that a lot. The Pluto question -- well, sorry, can you just restate your Pluto question, Rob? Robert S. Fishman - MoffettNathanson LLC - Analyst Of course. Do you see this as a winner-take-all type of market as youre growing really quickly? Or will viewers just kind of jump around to the different services? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director All right. Thank you. Look, we are privileged to be in a leadership position with Pluto. Thats partially because we saw the opportunity early and then added, first, Viacom and now ViacomCBS assets and capabilities to it in the form of content, in the form of distribution, in the form of advertising sales. I dont think its a winner-take-all market. But clearly, having a leadership position is exceptionally valuable. And we are certainly focused on continuing to press the gas pedal there and building a leadership position worldwide. And I would point out that, as you have this scale, it really is a flywheel. If you talk to Tom Ryan, hell talk about the Pluto flywheel. And what he means by that is the scale is self-reinforcing because as the platform gets bigger, as you have more MAUs, your monetization increases to the example of $70 million to $1 billion this year. That means that the people who have content on the platform make more money, which in turn means your platform is more attractive, which in turn means you get better content. So the good news is thats the trajectory Plutos on and, again, we couldnt be happier. So look, thanks, everyone, for joining. In closing, clearly, I think you can hear it. These are very exciting times at ViacomCBS. We have really strong operating momentum. We have amazing content, and we have a streaming strategy that is really delivering. You see that in our second quarter, and were feeling great about the outlook for the year ahead. So thank you for your time and support. We look forward to delivering for all of you on the ViacomCBS growth opportunity. And finally, Id like to thank all the ViacomCBS employees for all they do every day to drive the company forward. Stay well, everyone, and well talk to you soon. 16 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call Operator This concludes todays conference. You may disconnect your lines. Thank you for your participation. DISCLAIMER Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANYS SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 2021, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 14918728-2021-08-05T16:42:39.400 17 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. AUGUST 05, 2021 / 12:30PM, VIAC.OQ - Q2 2021 ViacomCBS Inc Earnings Call"
"Paramount";"Earnings Transcript";"ViacomCBS Q3 2021 Earnings Call Transcript.pdf Corrected Transcript 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com Total Pages : 19 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 04 - N ov - 2021 ViacomCBS, Inc. ( V IAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 2 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. Naveen Chopra Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ViacomCBS, Inc. OTHER PARTICIPANTS Brett Feldman Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Michael Morris Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC Alexia S. Quadrani Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC Ri chard Greenfield Analyst, LightShed Partners John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Benjamin Swinburne Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC Douglas Mitchelson Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LL C Robert Fishman Analyst, MoffettNathanson LLC ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION Operator : Good day, everyone, and welcome to the ViacomCBS Conference Call. Todays call is being recorded. At this time, Id like to turn the call over to Executive Vice President of Investor Relations, Mr. Anthony DiClemente. Please go ahead, sir. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for taking the time to join us for our thi rd quarter 2021 earnings call. Joining us for todays discussion are Bob Bakish, our President and CEO; and Naveen Chopra, our CFO. Please note that in addition to our earnings release, we have trending schedules containing supplemental information available on our website. We want to remind you that certain statements made on this call are forward - looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are discussed in more detail in our filings with the SEC. Some of todays financial remarks will focus on adjusted results. Reconciliations of these non - GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings release or in our trending schedules, which contain supplemental information and in each case, can be found in the I nvestor Relations section of our website. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 3 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Now, I will turn the call over to Bob. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. Good morning, and thank you for joining us. On todays call, Ill cover two key topics: F irst, Ill briefly discuss ViacomCBSs third quarter results. Then Ill talk about streaming, where were executing against a global strategy that leans into our distinct competitive advantages and where our strong momentum shows how were uniquely positio ned for success. Let me start with the companys third quarter results, where we achieved another quarter of strong performance as total company revenue grew 13% year - over - year, reflecting growth across all revenue streams. In affiliate, revenue grew as w e continued to benefit from the expanded distribution of ViacomCBS renowned brands. We also struck a series of distribution renewals, including with Charter, Cox and just last month, Altice. And despite a tough comparison against political advertising in the prior year quarter, we grew advertising revenue in Q3, benefiting from an improved marketplace. Turning to streaming. We had another fantastic quarter of growth. The strength and momentum of both ParamountPlus and Pluto TV are clearly evident and demonst rate the power of the strategy we laid out at our investor event earlier this year. Overall, quarterly global streaming revenue surpassed $1 billion for the first time, driven by robust growth in both subscription and advertising, including the addition of 4.3 million global streaming subscribers. These strong streaming results reinforce our conviction that our strategy is working and that were well positioned to capture the significant opportunity in the global streaming ecosystem. To that end, I want to remind you of three key enablers driving the ViacomCBS strategy, all of which were seeing in action: First, an incredible breadth and depth of compelling content, which is critical to attracting and retaining consumers globally; second, robust distributi on and marketing, which ensures we can build the broadest reach and awareness; and third, a strong and flexible financial engine to enable streaming investment, drive ROI and maximize shareholder value. First, content. ViacomCBS is uniquely positioned with a vast library and production capabilities across genres, demos and geographies, including world - class studios aligned with broadly recognized brands, which enables us to produce a diversity of compelling and engaging content on a global scale, conten t thats already fueling ParamountPluss growth. When we introduced ParamountPlus 9 months ago, we told you it would be a differentiated product with broad appeal, composed of a full range of content including news, sports, movies, kids and family, unscripted an d original dramas. Our consumer data tells us the diversity of content on ParamountPlus is a huge attraction and it is served as a key tool for customer acquisition as well as for driving customer satisfaction, thus improving churn. As evidenced, just look a t the third quarter. Starting with kids and family content, which was the top genre on ParamountPlus for both acquisition and engagement in the quarter. In fact, over half of our subscribers streamed kids and family content from our globally loved Nickelodeon brand. Whats even more impressive is that content consumption was balanced across new originals, and library, both film and television, including enduring franchises like SpongeBob and PAW Patrol and young adult content, such as the new iCarly. Movies a re also proving to be a key attraction to the service. And as we continue to experiment with different lease strategies, were seeing success across all of them. This quarter, A Quiet Place Part II and PAW Patrol: The Movie were the top 2 titles for acquis ition and engagement on ParamountPlus. And the results were impressive, both ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 4 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC in theatrical and on ParamountPlus. And following the global success of PAW Patrol: The Movie, were thrilled to announce the sequel, which will debut in 2023. In addition, a new PAW P atrol spin - off series for Nick and ParamountPlus is in development. This is ViacomCBS franchise management ratcheting up to the next level. Next week, we have another family film day - and - date theatrical and ParamountPlus Premier with Clifford the Big Red Dog, wh ich is tracking very well. And finally, as we told you, were also creating films exclusively for ParamountPlus. Just this past weekend, the latest Paranormal Activity: Next of Kin debuted, and we like how this model is working, too. So clearly, movies are a hit for ParamountPlus, and theyll continue to be because ParamountPlus is only one of a handful of streaming services in the world that can draw from an established and legendary movie studio like Paramount Pictures to provide it with a steady supply of world - class films. And then theres live sports. This quarter, we welcomed back the highly anticipated return of the NFL and soccer, including UEFA, and the fans came back in droves. Look across it, and youll find that 1/3 of all active domestic ParamountPlus sub scribers watch sports. And importantly, were engaging with our sports fans after the game too, building out the content slates of those genres that we know sports fans love from our long history with broadcast and cable. This is critical to maximizing our ROI on sports. And our ParamountPlus content line - up is only getting stronger. The fourth quarter will see our biggest scripted original line - up yet. First up, from Yellowstone creator and hit maker, Taylor Sheridan, is Mayor of Kingstown starring Jeremy Re nner. Next is the Yellowstone prequel 1883, staring Tim McGraw and Faith Hill. Well launch both of these shows behind the most popular show on cable television, Yellowstone, introducing them to a weekly audience of over 7 million viewers to drive awarenes s and anticipation among the loyal fan base before they move exclusively to ParamountPlus. These are amazing series and will no doubt be fan favorites when released. And on November 25, Kyle, Stan, Kenny and Cartman will make their highly anticipated debut o n ParamountPlus as we exclusively premiere the first of our South Park made for streaming movies titled South Park: Post COVID. And the second exclusive South Park made for streaming movie will stream in December. Moving from content to the second key enable r of our streaming success, which is leveraging ViacomCBSs robust distribution and marketing capabilities to build the broadest reach and awareness. We are benefiting from our broadcast, cable and social reach, driving consumers to ParamountPlus, which is bo th an efficient and effective way to promote our new and existing series, movies and events in streaming. Of course, that includes running spots and leveraging the social followings of our franchises and talent, but its much more than that. I already ment ioned what were doing with Taylor shows. We just moved SEAL Team exclusively to ParamountPlus after 4 episodes ran on CBS. We moved EVIL earlier in the year, and were doing similar things outside the US as well. In terms of streaming distribution, youll s ee us continue to scale both new and traditional platforms. For example, we just announced a broad distribution agreement with T - Mobile to bring ParamountPlus Essential to the carriers large customer base across the US. Suffice to say, were thrilled to have T - Mobile welcome more fans to ParamountPluss diverse and compelling content slate. But streaming is not just about the US. I really see our international footprint as a key accelerant for the company to unlock the very significant opportunity in streaming outside United States. Here, were rapidly making great strides. Last week, we launched Pluto TV in Italy, continuing its international expansion. This week, we announced an agreement to acquire a majority stake in Fox TeleColombia and Estudios TeleMexico, which, when ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 5 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC combined with our existing assets, including Chilevisión and Telefe, solidifies ViacomCBS as one of the largest Spanish language content creators in the world. On our last call in August, we announced a strategic partnership with Sky to launc h ParamountPlus in key Western European countries next year, including the UK, Germany and Italy, putting us on track to achieve 45 markets by the end of 2022. We have since announced SkyShowtime, a joint venture with Comcast, which will include premium and o riginal content from both companies. Launching in 2022, SkyShowtime will reach an additional 20 European territories covering 90 million homes. The third enabler that positions us to win in streaming is our strong and flexible financial engine. Here, ther e are a number of elements to highlight. It starts with a streaming financial model based on multiple revenue streams, which enables us to monetize content, both through advertising and subscription. Multi - revenue stream businesses have attractive characte ristics when it comes to size and diversification. Multiple revenue streams made the cable network business extremely attractive. They will do the same for streaming, and the total addressable market for streaming is even larger. Let me put our streaming ad business in context for you. As the leading free ad - supported streaming TV service on the market, Pluto TV is winning in both scale and engagement, and it will be a $1 billion revenue business this year. Add to that global expansion and significant upsi de from our ad - supported version of ParamountPlus, and you have a long runway of streaming advertising growth ahead. And then theres subscription. This is already a huge market. And while its still early inning for us, our ViacomCBS business is well ahead of our long - term growth plan, and we like what we see ahead. Our financial strength and flexibility is also reinforced by our ability to leverage our streaming content investment across geographies and platforms. Global is obviously important for content R OI, and we are a global company, both as a content maker and as a network and streaming operator. Lastly, the combination of the strong cash flow of our legacy business, our aggressive approach to noncore asset dispositions and our capital raise earlier i n the year has allowed us to build a substantial incremental capital base to invest in streaming. As we said we would, we began deploying that capital in the third quarter to accelerate our streaming growth. These investments have attractive returns and re sult in more original series and movies for streaming. As I mentioned earlier, we have a great content pipeline for Q4 and anticipate it will have a positive effect on our subscriber growth, which will be larger than in Q3. This will also be the case for P luto MAUs in Q4. And as a reminder, were also deploying this capital to drive our international expansion. Finally, Im excited to tell you we will hold an investor event early next year to provide an update on our streaming business, including showcasin g our content to come and providing more transparency around our plans and progress. With that, Ill hand it over to Naveen to share additional financial and operational highlights. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Viaco mCBS, Inc. Thank you, Bob, and good morning, everyone. Our third quarter results were highlighted by continued growth in streaming, where we had another solid quarter of subscriber additions. Streaming revenue grew 62% year - over - year with solid growth in both the subscription and advertising components of our streaming business. Q3 also benefited from growth in traditional advertising, affiliate revenue and content licensing. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 6 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Let me start by providing some additional granularity on our streaming results, beginning with our subscription business, and then moving to our ad - supported services. We added 4.3 million global streaming subscribers in the quarter, reaching nearly 47 million at quarter end. ParamountPlus continues to drive the significant majority of n ew subscribers with a mix of both domestic and international customers. We also saw continued improvement in ParamountPlus engagement. The average monthly share of domestic pay subscribers active on the service, also known as our monthly active rate, grew in the quarter both sequentially and year - over - year. At the same time, average monthly hours per active domestic subscriber also improved quarter - over - quarter and year - over - year. And in terms of monetization, global streaming subscription ARPU increased 8% y ear - over - year. The combination of strong subscriber growth and increased engagement led to streaming subscription revenue growth of 79% to $548 million. Moving to our ad - supported streaming businesses. Pluto TV ended Q3 with 54.4 billion global MAUs and revenue grew 99% year - over - year. Plutos success continues to be driven by growth in users, engagement and sell - through, which translated to a 60% increase in Pluto TV domestic ARPU in the quarter. While Pluto accounts for the majority of our streaming adv ertising revenue growth, we also saw strong growth at ParamountPlus, where domestic advertising revenue more than doubled in the quarter. All in, streaming advertising revenue grew 48% year - over - year to $531 million. Advertising revenue, which excludes strea ming, grew 1% in Q3 to $1.9 billion as strong demand was somewhat offset by ratings pressure, political spend that benefited the prior year quarter, as well as the sale of CNET. Taken together, the impact of political and the sale of CNET resulted in nearl y 500 basis points of headwind to advertising growth in Q3. Looking to Q4, advertising revenue will benefit from the start of new fall programming and improved upfront pricing with the new broadcast season. While supply chain issues do somewhat limit visi bility, we expect to see year - over - year advertising growth in Q4. Affiliate revenue, which also excludes streaming, grew 2% year - over - year to $2.1 billion as incremental distribution, contractual rate increases and growth in reverse comp more than offset the decline in pay TV subscribers. We expect these drivers to continue into Q4, resulting in another quarter of low single - digit affiliate revenue growth. Licensing and other revenue, which includes fees from the licensing of internally - produced televisio n and film programming to third - party platforms as well as fees generated from home entertainment, consumer products and live events, increased 18% to $1.5 billion. Q3 2021 reflects a higher volume of licensing deliveries in the year ago period, which was impacted by COVID - 19 production shutdowns. Total company revenue grew 13% year - over - year to $6.6 billion. Adjusted OIBDA fell 3% to $1 billion as we continue to ramp up programming and production spend coming out of COVID and increase our investment in str eaming. Adjusted diluted EPS was $0.76. Adjusted free cash flow was a use of $187 million in the quarter, reflecting a ramp in programming spend including our investment in streaming. Adjusted free cash flow in Q4 should reflect a continuation of this tre nd. And turning to the balance sheet. We finished the quarter with $4.8 billion of cash on hand and total debt of $17.7 billion. This translates to a 2.5 times net leverage ratio as of September 30. We continue to have significant financial flexibility, wh ich will increase further with proceeds from asset sales, including BlackRock, which closed in October. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 7 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Looking ahead, we expect total pay subscriber additions in Q4 to be higher than Q3, driven by the content we have coming to ParamountPlus, including the p remier of some of our biggest new originals, as Bob just described. Were excited about the launch of our T - Mobile partnership, which will have a modest benefit in Q4, but should be a more significant contributor in 2022. We also expect Q4 Pluto TV MAU add itions to be greater than Q3, which, in combination with ParamountPlus growth, will result in continued strong total streaming revenue growth rates in Q4. In fact, we expect streaming revenue to surpass a $5 billion annual run rate in the quarter. This places us ahead of the trajectory implied by the long - term streaming subscriber and revenue goals we provided earlier this year. Were encouraged by this momentum and are continuing to execute against our previously described growth and investment plans. As we ve said before, this translates to streaming content expense more than doubling for the full year 2021 versus 2020. And given the cadence of content hitting ParamountPlus Q4 streaming expense, including content and marketing to support the new programming, is expected to increase on the order of $350 million relative to streaming costs incurred in the third quarter of 2021. As Bob said, ViacomCBS is well positioned to be successful in streaming, given the breadth and depth of content we have on the service, o ur robust distribution and marketing capabilities and our strong and flexible financial engine. As we scale, improving unit economics and continued TAM expansion will make streaming accretive to ViacomCBS earnings and cash flow over the long term. And as we invest against the streaming growth opportunity, we will evolve the way we manage and allocate resources in our business. With this in mind, we plan to change our segment reporting beginning with our first quarter 2022 results, which will help investors better understand ViacomCBS as the combination of three parts: A very profitable traditional media business, a world - class film studio and a portfolio of high - growth global direct - to - consumer streaming services. Our direct - to - consumer segment will includ e ParamountPlus, Pluto TV, Showtime OTT and our other direct - to - consumer services. We will combine our TV entertainment and cable networks businesses into one TV media segment, and we will continue to have a filmed entertainment segment. Importantly, these ch anges reflect the increasing strategic focus we will be devoting to our direct - to - consumer business. Our new segment disclosure will provide additional information on the growth drivers and business performance of the services that comprise our B2C segment and give shareholders even greater visibility to our streaming progress. We look forward to discussing the changes to our segment disclosure in further detail, along with updates on our direct - to - consumer growth and investment plans at the investor event Bob noted and which we will host in the first quarter of 2022. With that, lets open the call for questions. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 8 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION Operator : Thank you. [Operator Instructions] . Our first question comes from the line of Brett Feldman with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Brett Feldman Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Q Yes. Thanks for taking the question. Its actually a three - part question about the new T - Mobile deal, which looks pretty exciting. T - Mobile, they just rep orted earlier in the week, they had just under 27 million postpaid accounts, I just want to confirm that, thats sort of the addressable opportunity for you with T - Mobile? And then Im curious why youre expecting the impact to be more early next year, eve n though its going to start being offered in this quarter? The second part of the question is, typically, these are wholesale deals where all of these customers would be paid and in your paid subscriber count, but maybe at a lower ARPU. And Im just curi ous if thats the arrangement here? And then the last one is a bigger one. This is now sort of your second big distribution deal following what youve done with Sky in Europe. I was hoping you can maybe give us some insights into what you think the opport unity is to continue adding more distribution partners, both domestically and in your international markets? Thanks. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yes. Sure, Brett. Let me start and actually start in reverse order. So look, I believe in the power of partnership. It has been used effectively to create value, great value for this company in the past and will on a going - forward basis. Today, we talked about two partnerships T - Mobile and Sky. I think they are great examples of creating value. And in all cases, when we think about partnership, what were looking for is an ability to drive scale. Were looking for low subscriber acquisition costs. Were looking for deals which will drive subscriber stickine ss. And we want to align with great brands. And again, those are examples of both. So lets talk about T - Mobile a little bit since that was at the core of your question. Were thrilled with the deal we announced this morning. Its an efficient way for us to acquire ParamountPlus subscribers. Its a partnership with a great consumer brand, and it will be additive to ParamountPluss momentum. When I think about it, Id highlight two things, big picture. The first one is that the most important thing for Paramount + now is exposing more consumers to the offering, particularly as were ramping content. So this deal obviously does that. And unlike most wireless promotions, this deal will be available to all TMO users. The second thing Id highlight is that the fit of ParamountPlus and T - Mobile is excellent. Their un - carrier position speaks really to value and innovation. That aligns with ParamountPlus. And the essentials product that were using is ideal. As you know, that product has content for the whole household. And it has an attractive price point of $4.99, which will really maximize downstream conversion after the promotional period, and the broader distribution of ParamountPlus Essential fits well with driving our streaming ad business. So we think that all makes tremen dous sense. And again, were very happy with this deal. Naveen, maybe youd comment a bit more on the economics. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 9 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Naveen Chopra Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Sure. Bob, happy to do that. Were definitely looking forw ard to showcasing all the new content weve got coming to ParamountPlus in 2022 for all T - Mobile customers. So to your question about scope, yes, were excited to make this available to all the postpaid T - Mobile customers. We do think that the deal should ac celerate sub growth for ParamountPlus, but it will build over time. Some of the reason behind that is that the really big broad awareness marketing campaign will mostly kick in, in 2022. And between now and then, were going to be doing some things to evolve and optimize the consumer sign - up experience. We like the economics of these deals. You asked about the impact on ARPU. As is typically the case for these kinds of third - party bundles, they do come with slightly lower ARPU than what we would see on a dire ct basis. But we really like the LTVs of the subs that we can acquire through these types of deals. Those subs have lower churn, and we get full access to all the relevant user data, which helps us further maximize lifetime value. And at the same time, CAC is very low. So that ratio between lifetime value and acquisition cost is really compelling. And given what were seeing with our trial - to - pay conversion rates, I think we can really make some hay out of giving T - Mobile customers 12 months to experienc e all the great content that we are producing for ParamountPlus and then having them roll to paid customers after that point in time. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Thanks, Brett. Operator, well take our next question please? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Operator : Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Morris with Guggenheim Partners. Please proceed with your question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Michael Morris Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC Q Thank you. Good morning, guys. Ill as k a couple quickly. First, kind of following up on the T - Mobile question, Id ask the same thing about the Sky partnership for ParamountPlus, whether at this point we have any more insight into the timing of the Western European launch there? And how to think about sort of the immediate impact of the partnership or what the sort of steps are to kind of penetrate the addressable market there? What the timing might be? And then second, if I could just ask maybe Naveen a little bit more on the composition of the 47 million global streaming subs. Could you help us at all at this point with how many of those are ParamountPlus and maybe within ParamountPlus the mix of Premium versus Essentials? As you look at the new reporting that you just announced, is that something th at maybe we work towards getting regular disclosure on going forward? Thank you. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Sure, Mike. So let me start and then Ill throw it to Naveen. On the Sky question, theres really two different kinds of partnerships with Sky that weve announced. The first one, you could think of as a bundle, and thats with Sky in the UK, in Germany and Italy. Its a commercial deal where Sky will distribute ParamountPlus to all their Sky ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 10 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Cinema subscribers. And we look at that as a compelling way to accelerate penetration but its a commercial deal. So we preserve 100% ownership of the business. Like Naveen talked about with TMO, we believe that has really attractive CAC and churn cha racteristics. And importantly, in that deal, weve preserved our right to go direct in those markets as well to pursue additional opportunity because obviously, O&O direct is an important part of the streaming business. The second deal we announced with S ky is the SkyShowtime joint venture. Thats really a deal with Comcast, obviously, as well. Thats 50/50 JV on an equity basis. Thats targeting 20 smaller, mostly Eastern European countries, which is additive to the 45 markets weve talked about for 2022 historically. We see that – and that will be a single app combining ViacomCBS and a Comcast product. And we look at that as a way for us to participate in these smaller markets while preserving investment capacity for the larger ones, which are more import ant strategically. Now in terms of timing of both of those, the Sky bundle will launch in the UK in the first half of 2022, and that will be followed by Germany, Austria and Italy also in 2022. SkyShowtime, weve yet to announce dates on that, but it will be in 2022. So thats the story big picture. Naveen? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yes. So, to your questions about composition of the streaming subscriber base. First to actually, I think, the last part of your question, we will be aiming to provide some incremental disclosure related to the breakdown of streaming subs as part of the changes in reporting for Q1 and beyond. So stay tuned for that. In terms of where we stand today, I can give you a l ittle bit of color around some of what weve seen in terms of sub additions. I think I mentioned that a significant majority of additions in the quarter came from ParamountPlus. Id also note that ParamountPlus domestic adds were higher in Q3 than they were in Q 2. So even though thats the case. We do still have a nice contribution from international. And in terms of the split between Premium and Essentials, we dont break that out specifically, but theyre both important contributors to the subs that we added in the quarter. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Thanks a lot. Operator, well take our next question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Operator : Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Alexia S. Quadrani Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC Q Thank you. It sounds like movies are some of the biggest drivers to new subscribers based on your opening comments, Bob. Im wondering if that changes the way that you think about windowing? Are you less inclined to stay with a 45 - day window? And my second question is, just back to the investment in local language content, youve made several acquisitions to bolster that content. Now going forward, I think you see outsiz ed investment in content outside the US versus domestic? Or is it kind of – how should we think about? Should it be kind of even? Which markets do you see as sort of more competitive and maybe need more spending? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 11 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Execu tive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yes, sure, Alexia. On the film windowing question, if you look at ParamountPlus in the quarter – the third quarter, we actually deployed 3 different models. We deployed exclusive premiere. We deployed day - and - date. We deployed 45 - day fast follow. And actually, we deployed the exclusive both in what was planned for a theatrical release and in a true made for. So, were experimenting with a bunch of different models on the ParamountPlus side, based on what we think is bes t for a specific film, obviously, keeping in mind all the constituents involved in that. The reality is we see them all work. So its not a question of moving away from one or the other. Were going to continue to optimize on a per film basis, and were d efinitely not moving off the 45 - day fast follow. If you look at A Quiet Place Part II, that was a film that used that model, and it was very effective both in theatrical from a box office perspective, even with some of the COVID issues, as well as a big su b - driver for ParamountPlus. And by the way, weve got plenty of consumption of A Quiet Place Part I as well, which really points to the value of having a library to go along with, call it, new release product on ParamountPlus. So well continue that. As I said in my remarks, the next film up this weekend is Clifford. That will be another day - and - date, theatrical ParamountPlus release. We think kids and family in this continued COVID time, those films are right for day - and - date. Again, PAW Patrol worked very well, a nd were excited about Clifford. Moving to the second part of your question, which is around local content. People think of ViacomCBS as a massive English language content creator, and we obviously are. But for years, weve been creating content around the world to satisfy local consumers. You look at our company and you got hit originals coming out of Telefe, things like 100 Days to Fall in Love, To Catch a Thief. These shows do like 40 - plus shares in Latin America, certainly in Argentina. We also do a lot of format work all around the world, probably the best example of that, but not the only example, is our Shores franchise, where we have many versions out there. And actually, when you look at that, what you see is our scale is not just in English. And I mentioned it, but in addition to English, were also one of the largest Spanish language producers in the world, and thats not something people typically talk about. When you think of streaming, which is, Im sure at the core of your question, that provides an opportunity for us to leverage our experience in this ex - US production as a real competitive advantage. And thats both to serve specific markets and have that strong local relevance, again, through characters and storylines, et cetera. But it also, in the streaming space, is to supply a larger aggregate global slate, where we also benefit from cost advantages. Were already using locally produced content to great effect in places like Latin America for streaming. I mentioned Shores, Acapulco Shore is a massive hit on ParamountPlus. And really, our next step is to exploit that content, really the whole collection of content globally, where we integrate international productions into our global slate. That will start next month, where the two Tel efe shows I mentioned will become in a ParamountPlus. That will be the first of many. And likewise, were going to do some interesting things with formats, including cross - border for ParamountPlus. So local content is definitely core to our strategy, but its a bout much more than the local market. Its about feeding the global ParamountPlus pipeline as well. Thanks. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 12 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Thanks, Alexia. Operator, next question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Operator : Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Rich Greenfield with LightShed Partners. Please proceed with your question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Richard Greenfield Analyst, LightShed Partners Q Hi. Thanks for taking the question. Over the last several months, WarnerMedia moved away from Amazon channel. So youve seen essentially the biggest players in streaming: Disney, Netflix, Hulu, Apple TV, all sort of focus on D2C and a direct retail relationship with the consumer versus wholesaling through Amazon. I think, if I look at Vi acomCBS, I think youre the largest now of the remaining players on Amazon channels, or who are using Amazon channels. Bob, Id love sort of your sort of high - level kind of view on the puts and takes of being on Amazon versus going and being in sort of a w holesale relationship with the consumer versus fully direct? And should we think about as you start to focus more and more on streaming, will you move away from Amazon and go fully direct? Or is this something you like and you think others are actually inc orrect in not being on Amazon? And it would be great to – if theres any way to frame how big Amazon is or things like Amazon are part of that 47 million, that would be great to understand as well? Thanks. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Of ficer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Sure, Rich. Look, its a great question. We continue to believe in broad and ubiquitous distribution really as a path to scale. And that includes wholesale relationships, including with the company you mentioned. Now look, theres obviously trade - offs in terms of a wholesale versus a direct relationship. Those trade - offs tend to be around requests for certain types of exclusivity, data access, margin. So its not a black - and - white question. The real question is, do you have deals in place, which makes sense relative to those considerations. And we gave a lot of thought to that. And by the way, that means we passed on some deals and some deals take longer to get done than certain people would like because the deal has to be right. But net - net, where we are in terms of balance, particularly as were focused on scaling, we continue to believe in the benefit of these wholesale relationships in terms really of providing access to the largest total addressable market, w hich we strongly believe offsets some of the other considerations, again, assuming you have the appropriate deal structure. So we like the balanced model. Of course, its something were going to continue to evaluate over time as we scale. But we see valu e to these distribution channels today. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Thanks, Rich. Next question, please. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 13 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Operator : Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of John Hodulik with UBS. Please proceed with your question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Great. Thanks, guys. Two things. First on the D2C content, Naveen, thanks for the color there, ramping to sounds like over $2 billion in 2021. Is the $5 billion in 2024 still the target? Any color on sort of how that ramps in 2022? And how much of that is incremental to the whole company? And then secondly, the licensing revenues look strong again this quarter, and I know you guys benefited from easier comps. But Bob, youre talk ing about the business continuing to be a multi - revenue stream business. Just your view on sort of the future of that licensing business you have and how that fits into the broader D2C strategy? Thanks. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Chief Financial Officer & Executive V ice President, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah, sure. John, Ill jump in there, first, on the content spend. The $5 billion, as you said, is our sort of where were tracking on a long - term basis. I think I would remind you that that is not entirely incremental to total company content spend. And so while we are expecting to see material increases in streaming content expense, I mentioned the doubling from 2020 to 2021 and then growing further to over $5 billion by 2024, not all of that is entirely incremental, beca use as the linear business continues to evolve, there will be remixing between linear and streaming. I think youve heard me say before that theres a lot of content that does double duty for us on both linear and streaming platforms. And I think at the e nd of the day, we are very focused on the ROI of those content investments. We continue to see content investment as the single greatest way to continue to grow customer LTVs, both through increased engagement and lower churn. And were already seeing evid ence of that in our results since the launch of ParamountPlus. So it makes total sense for us to continue to invest behind it. And then I think the second question is on content licensing? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Vi acomCBS, Inc. A Ill take the licensing side. Weve obviously been in the licensing business for a long time. As a reminder, content licensing revenue for ViacomCBS has a bunch of different components in it. As Naveen mentioned in his remarks, it includes home entertainment, includes TV syndication, it includes consumer products, and of course, it includes licensing of content more broadly. When you look at the – so Id say two things. One is were in the licensing business, but two is that business is, f or sure, evolving. So when you look at the Q3 results, and yes, there was a whole bunch of growth there. The growth was heavily COVID related. We had many deliveries that were delayed due to production shutdowns. So theres definitely some catch - up in Q3. And then the other thing thats going on is, if you looked at the prior year quarter, particularly internationally, particularly in the ad - supported network space, you had many people that had hunkered – many buyers that had hunkered down and were preser ving cash given the uncertainty of the revenue situation. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 14 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC As the ad market has rebounded, those companies have moved to refresh their content line - ups so that they can satisfy their consumers with new product versus kind of running the sprockets off what they had at the time. And thats certainly a driver of the growth. The third thing is there are a bunch of original series deliveries in there. What you need to understand about that is those are fulfillments of deals that were really predating the launch of ParamountPlus. So that might be a third season of a show were doing for someone. It might be a first season of a show were doing for someone that took two - plus years to create. So while our strategy has shifted to become much more focused on owned - and - o perated streaming with our franchises, et cetera. There is a tail to the, call it, legacy deals weve done, and you do see that showing up in the third quarter. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Thanks, Jo hn. Operator, next question please? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Operator : Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jessica Reif Ehrlich with Bank of America Securities. Please proceed with your question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q Thanks. A content question, could you talk about your evolving strategy for Paramount in context of the whole company growth, so both film and direct - to - consumer? And then, I guess, two short follow - ups. For ParamountPlus, can you give us color on your ad - lite ARPU? S o whats the ARPU with advertising versus subscription only? And then you talked a little bit about asset sales, but in Simon & Schuster, given the governments response, where do you go from here? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yes. So a bunch of stuff in there, Jessica. Let me start. On content and Paramount, presumably Paramount Pictures, we obviously made a management change there. Im very excited to have Brian in the chair. Jim, obviously, got us to a better place financially and really stabilized the studio. But as we look at the next chapter, we need to lean in more into franchises. We need to lean more into a multifaceted model, including, of course, streaming. And I think Brian, as both a cont ent creator and a collaborator is ideally suited to that, and is already moving quickly to prove that value. In terms of the evolution of a slate, Brian is working on that. I think the good news is we have a very well stocked slate as we enter 2022, for s ure; great pictures in the can, which hopefully the theatrical market will continue to improve. It has been improving, particularly at the younger end. And that slate will provide tremendous benefit theatrically. And we remain committed to theatrical, but also in downstream windows, including the fast follow strategy were using for ParamountPlus Pay1. You did see us announce a PAW Patrol sequel, which speaks to franchises. But Im very excited about where Paramount Pictures is going to go. It clearly is an important part of the company as a content engine. And its clearly in early days, but clearly benefiting ParamountPlus as well. Let me take the last part of your question, too, which is the Simon & Schuster one, and then Ill throw it to Naveen. On Simon & Schuster, really, I just want to reiterate the statements that we and Penguin Random House made ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 15 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC earlier in the week. We do believe the transaction will be beneficial for consumers, booksellers and authors. We think the DoJs claims are without merit. Im n ot going to get into any legal arguments here. But I will say, as weve disclosed under our sale agreement, Penguin Random House has agreed to take all necessary steps to attain the required regulatory approval, including defending through – defending any litigation. And so they and we will vigorously defend this lawsuit. Naveen? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So to the question on ARPU as between the Essential and Premium tiers for ParamountPlus, a couple of important points. Number one, the ARPUs between those tiers are really not as different as you might think because of the advertising contribution in the Essential tier. I think youve heard us comment about the fact that we see a lot of momentu m in the digital advertising component, which is one of the things we really like about that plan. And in fact, in Q3, the delta between ARPU on the Essential tier and the Premium tier continued to narrow. And second major point is that ultimately, were focused on making sure that our customers are in whichever tier is going to make them the most sticky, meaning were less focused on the ARPU because in the long run, the bigger determinant of lifetime value is actually the expected life of the customer. S o its all about getting them in the tier where theyre going to stick around the longest. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Great. Thanks, Jessica. Operator, next question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Operator : Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Benjamin Swinburne Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC Q Good morning. Bob, you talked a lot about different content verticals for streaming. I wanted to ask you about sports. How is the NFL and sort of your sports line - up performing? Are you looking to add sports rights? And are there international strategies around adding sports to your streaming portfolio over time? And then, Ill just ask my follow - up now to Naveen. On the new segments next year – I realize its a ways out – but Im assuming that includes EBITDA, so were going to be getting a direct - to - consumer segment EBITDA number. And to your point earlier about content traveling, I guess youll be using some sort of allocation between segments on programming that lives in both places. Just was wondering if you could give us some more color there. Its obviously an interesting addition to the sort of disclosures. Thank you. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Ba kish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah, sure. So look, I think the best way to think about the sports question is to talk about how ParamountPlus consumption has evolved since the transformation. So we obviously transforme d it from CBS All Access nine months ago. And in doing so, made two really big moves, which is adding kids and family content and films, really, at scale. And that has dramatically changed the composition of subscriber acquisitions as well as engagement. T hose categories were essentially zero in the CBS All Access days, and now theyre very material. And they stand alongside, really, CBS, both entertainment and sports. So as you talk about sports, theres no question, it continues to be a really important c ategory for us. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 16 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC In my remarks, I mentioned the power of the NFL and UEFA. By the way, throw college football in their too. They have continued to perform for us. In fact, both the NFL and UEFA set in - house streaming records when they returned for ParamountPlus. So, super happy with that. Again, part of – versus being focused on deepening that collection of sports, what were focusing on is getting really an ROI from that sports and taking advantage of what Id call a conjoint analysis of what else doe s sports consumers watch. And by the way, the answer to that question tends to be, believe it or not, reality, adult animation and of course, scripted shows. So were working on ensuring customer satisfaction of those sports fans – and roughly a third of people on ParamountPlus have watched sports – to go and make sure were extending that lifetime value. So thats our principal focus today, certainly, in the US. Ex - US, we dont really have a significant sports component. We have some trials underway like in Australia with Australian football, but we dont really start with a cornerstone right. So were evaluating where to go with that. Naveen? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Ben, to your question on what to expect in terms of the new segment reporting, let me share a couple of thoughts. Were obviously making those changes because we are really evolving the way that were managing the business, and were increasingly thinking about it as the three pa rts that we outlined, that traditional media business that combines broadcast and cable networks, which is sort of a lower growth, but a very healthy margin business. The movie studio, which, as you know, is a core source of content for both our theatrica l and streaming platforms. And then that D2C segment, which is the portfolio of a bunch of high - growth businesses where were still in investment mode, but very bullish about the future growth potential. So yes, we will have those as fully independent segm ents, meaning, the presentation will allow you to see the earnings power of our traditional businesses independent from the investment and contribution from streaming. And I think that will reveal a couple of important things. Number one, it will give you a holistic view of the direct - to - consumer business all the way through the P&L, to your question. And I think it will also demonstrate that earnings in our core business are relatively stable and materially higher than our consolidated OIBDA. So I think it will be helpful to investors to look at the business in that way and get a much more accurate picture of how the different parts are evolving. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Thanks, Ben, Operator, next question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Operator : Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Doug Mitchelson with Credit Suisse. Please proceed with your question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Douglas Mitchelson Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC Q Thanks so much. I guess my question, my follow - up. Is the funnel from Pluto to ParamountPlus sort of working as you hoped? And is there more to go there? And I think as part of that, you made the ParamountPlus Showtime ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 17 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC bundle permanent recently after sort of a trial period. Any early results from t hat and any long - term path to just merging those services? And my follow - up for Naveen is could you give us a sense this year that over $2 billion for content spending, thats amortization, right? Can you give us a sense of the cash versus book difference for streaming content spend and how we should think about that going forward? Understanding that there might be linear content spending coming down, I would appreciate it. Thanks. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah, Doug. So look, we have a differentiated strategy and one we believe is right for our company and right for the times. And that strategy spans both free and pay, which gives us access to the largest total addressable market opportun ity. As you know, theres, many types of consumers out there. Some people dont want to pay on one extreme. And on the other extreme, there are heavy users that are fine with paying very significant, call it, monthly bills for entertainment content. Both of those segments or all the segments are a very material size. And the products we have in the space, in this case, ParamountPlus on one hand and Pluto on the other, and Ill come to Showtime, are differentiated in their space because theyre both broad pro ducts. We definitely believe there are synergies across this. As you noted, Pluto as a free top - of - the - funnel service using our ParamountPlus Pics channel, as an example, which showcases ParamountPlus shows, likewise, exhibiting Showtime originals, first episod es, et cetera, both are good for subscriber acquisition. And then, in the context of ParamountPlus and Showtime in the US, those are two services with very, very low overlap in sub base. And so we believe a bundled strategy to the consumer could create some value. And as you know, we launched that product. There are other synergies in this business, too, particularly on the ad side. When you look across Pluto and ParamountPlus, and you heard Naveen talk about the growth rates of both of those ad businesses, obv iously, those ad businesses need to be fueled by impression growth, and both of those businesses are growing impression. So we like that combination. We believe there is early evidence of synergy across that combination. And well continue to push that. I n terms of Showtime and ParamountPlus combined, as you know, were doing that outside the United States. We think that will be really interesting to get some kind of real data on. But at the same time, they have very distinct brand positionings in the United States. Both are doing well, including Showtime OTT, thats really offsetting pressures in the linear business. And again, it has a very distinct positioning, has a great content slate whether its shows like Billions or The L Word or The Chi, new hits lik e Your Honor. Dexter, I was at the red carpet premiere earlier in the week and the return of that. So Showtime continues to do very well, and we like this multifaceted configuration. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ViacomCBS, Inc. A And real briefly to your question on the content expense. Yes, the $2 billion is expense, not cash. We have not provided any specific color in terms of the long - term cash profile there. I can tell you that in terms of Q4, I spoke in my p repared remarks about the trend on that expense between Q3 and Q4. And I would note that from a cash ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 18 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC perspective, the increase in Q4 will probably be more modest than what were seeing from an expense perspective. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Anthony DiClemente Executive Vice Presid ent - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Thank so much, Doug. Operator, we have time for one final question. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Operator : Thank you. Our final question this morning comes from the line of Robert Fishman with MoffettNathanson. Please proceed with your que stion. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Fishman Analyst, MoffettNathanson LLC Q Thank you and good morning. Yes, just one on the supply chain. So any impact that you can help share on auto or any other verticals on your portfolio, broadcast, cable networks, the local stations and even Pluto? And then more broadly, if you can discuss how the fourth quarter ad market is looking and any early cancellations youve seen for next quarter? Thank you. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yes, sure. Happy to talk about it. Let me start by saying we were super happy with Q3 in our ad business. We delivered growth in our advertising line, which as a reminder, excludes streaming ad revenue, and really strong growth when you combine both the advertising line and the streaming advertising line, were up about 9% versus prior year, and we are up versus 2019 as well. But the media question is really whats going on today. So looking at the fourth quarter, we see a combination of headwinds and ta ilwinds in the quarter. On the headwind side, we do have some record political comps that were up against. And yes, some supply chain - driven softness as we sit here today. You mentioned the auto category. Theres definitely some softness there. Theres so me softness in sort of physical tech - related products. What I would say is that this softness translates into people wanting to shift spending out of it to better align with anticipated product availability, were not seeing cancellations. So its more of a shift to better meet when they think their product is going to be available to consumers. At the same time, there are some tailwinds in the quarter, which were happy about. Obviously, strong upfront pricing kicking in from the last upfront, benefit of new fall season, including live sports and live sports, a big scatter driver. When we look at the quarter, we do expect strong growth relative to prior year and 2019 on a combined advertising and streaming advertising basis. So despite some of these supply chain issues, we still see nice growth. If we look a little bit further out, we dont really know at the end of the day how this supply chain issue, the timing of it reverting. But when it does come back, we do see the potential for upside as clients wil l now need to move product thats been stuck. We also have a great election cycle, Im sure, coming in 2022, at least from an advertising perspective. And big picture, we really like our proposition, which combines linear and our EyeQ digital as really being able to solve marketers problems. And by the way, EyeQ is already 25% of our business. So were tracking through it, but were happy with our position in the ad market. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Corrected Transcript 04 - Nov - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 19 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, I nc. Now with that, I just close by saying these are really exciting times for ViacomCBS. We are executing well. We do have tremendous momentum, including with ParamountPlus and Pluto TV. Both of those products are really delivering for us. And when we look f orward, we have what it takes to succeed in streaming. We have this incredible breadth and depth of compelling content. We have robust distribution and marketing capabilities, and we have a strong and flexible financial engine. And that, in turn, represen ts a tremendous shareholder value creation opportunity. So were really excited about the future. We look forward to telling you more about it, including at our investor event early next year. So thanks all for joining us and stay well. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Anthony DiClement e Executive Vice President - Investor Relations, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thanks, operator. That concludes our Q3 earnings call."
"Paramount";"Event Transcript";"ViacomCBS- Transcript -Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference- 9.14.21.pdf Corrected Transcript 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com Total Pages : 11 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 14 - Sep - 2021 ViacomCBS, Inc. ( V IAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference Corrected Transcript 14 - Sep - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 2 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... OTHER PARTICIPANTS Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Welcome back everybody. Im Jessica Reif Ehrlich, Senior Media and Entertainment analyst at BofA Securities. It is my pleasure to welcome Naveen Chopra, CFO, ViacomCBS. [indiscernible] (14) ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. Hi, Jessica. Thanks for having us. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Thanks so much. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference Corrected Transcript 14 - Sep - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 3 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q Well, never a dull moment with ViacomCBS. You just announced that, literally in the last hour or so, announced that Brian Robbins is going to be President and CEO of Paramount Studios (sic) [Pictures ] (00:29). In addition, David Nevins has expanded his responsibility to include Paramount Television Studios. Could you talk about the rationale behind the leadership change and what looks like another reorganization? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah, sure. Look, Jim leaves some very big shoes to fill at Paramount. Theres no doubt he has helped revit alize the studio both creatively and financially. But I think Brian is really the perfect person to take the reins from here. Ive had the opportunity to get to know him a bit over the past year and I think he is definitely someone who brings incredible, c reative, and strategic insights to the business. Hes a very passionate storyteller and he understands the importance of leveraging our franchises, as well as building new franchises. You see it in what hes done to - date with SpongeBob, what hes done wit h PAW Patrol, what hes done with iCarly, what hes starting to do with things like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. But that experience goes well beyond just kids programming. I mean, hes been a director, hes been a producer, hes helped found Awesomeness TV. He led Paramount Players when he was previously at Paramount. So, I think he understands the perspectives of all of our many constituents in the filmmaking industry. And thats really critical, because were obviously, as is sort of always the case in our industry, undergoing a lot of change. And I think Brian understands that in order to successfully navigate that change, you have to figure out how to leverage the benefits of the traditional parts of the business, including theatrical distribution, whi le also aggressively embracing streaming and changes in consumer behavior. So, Im very excited about where Brian will be able to take things in the future. Similarly, the transition of Paramount TV going to David Nevins, I think, will be a very accretive move for us. David is someone that just has an incredible track record of creating culture - defining content that is both commercially successful and critically acclaimed. And now he will be able to do that with an even broader purview. So, look, at the end of the day, were a content company. And I think that what Brian and David will be able to do to help take our content assets to the next level to feed multiple parts of our business is going to be really a great win for us. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst , BofA Securities, Inc. Q Great. So, continuing on the content theme and film, there is a significant change occurring right now in the industry for films and its various windows starting with theatrical. Its been – Ive never seen anything like what weve seen in the past year in terms of release strategies and schedules changing. So, if were in an environment where windows are shrinking, which they clearly are and our return to theaters at pre - COVID levels is unclear, do you think that the value of the film is worth less today than it was two or three years ago? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A No. Movies are extremely important to us. They continue to be a very unique storytelling medium that are critical to developing franchises and really being able to connect with audiences. Movies have always had the ability to be monetized through multiple different channels, and the difference is that today, we have more distribution ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference Corrected Transcript 14 - Sep - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 4 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC options for our films th an weve ever had. And youre starting to see us experiment and take advantage of that in a lot of different ways. If you take our most recent release of PAW Patrol as one example, thats a movie that we released day and date in theaters and on ParamountPlus. Now, a lot of sort of conventional wisdom would say while streaming and theaters are going to cannibalize one another, but in this case, what we saw was that PAW Patrols box office results actually exceeded the expectations that we set when we thought i t would be an exclusive theatrical release, meaning that the simultaneous release on P+ and theaters was very synergistic. I think the streaming release definitely helped drive awareness and interest in seeing the movie in a theater, and obviously, the the atrical release did a lot to eventize the release of the movie on ParamountPlus and really drove it to very quickly become one of the most watched originals that weve released on the service. And then in the case of PAW Patrol, theres also a whole consumer products angle that I think greatly benefited from the broader distribution and all of the incremental promotion and awareness that goes along with that. Now that being said, its not a one - size - fits - all approach. Youve seen us use different windowing s trategies for other movies. A Quiet Place Part II as an example was a movie that had an exclusive theatrical release with a fast follow 45 days later on ParamountPlus. And then weve done other movies that weve released as streaming exclusives, things like I nfinite and which we will do with the next installment of Paranormal Activity. So, the reality is that, what were doing is were looking at our films on a case - by - case basis. And were trying to optimize based on the specifics of the movie, based on other constituents that are involved and quite frankly, the realities of the pandemic. And were trying to make the best decisions for each of those movies. And so far, I think its worked very well in terms of both helping our streaming services, creating oppo rtunities for theatrical release when possible and ultimately, continuing to build our franchises and our IP and helping us connect with audiences. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q So, one more on film before we [ph] do (07:25) talk about all of your streaming services and thats – could you give us the rationale for delaying your theatrical film releases, your 2021 releases into 2022, especially in light of the performance of some of the more recent films that have come out? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Navee n Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A For the big releases, a Mission Impossible, a Top Gun, those are really pandemic - driven decisions. The fact is that the theatrical environment is still very dynamic and very di fferent in different parts of the world. And we just have found that in order to really maximize the value of those assets, it makes sense to wait. And again, we will continue to look at this on a case - by - case basis as the situation evolves. But I think th at really the key thing is that it is not one - size - fits - all. Were going to look at every movie depending on what we think makes sense for that particular movie at that particular point in time. And as I said, I think so far, weve had a pretty good track record there. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q Okay. Lets move on to ParamountPlus. Can you talk about what particular content or genres youre seeing the greatest engagement on ParamountPlus? And based on the consumer behavior that you ve seen so far, are you revising at all how much you allocate to TV versus films or any other types of content? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference Corrected Transcript 14 - Sep - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 5 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, ParamountPlus is intentionally a broad service. A lot of the existing large - scale streaming services, probably with the exception of Disney+, have really focused on big scripted dramas for adult audiences, and we know in part from our experience in a linear world that theres a whole world of viewing out there that is drawn to sports, to news, to unscripted content, to kids content, and were trying to really lean into that. I think it allows us to differentiate ParamountPlus, it allows us to serve multiple members of a household, and it maximizes engagement, acquisition, consumption on our service, all of which are critical to ultimately driving lifetime value. And that strategy you can see in the content that is resonating on ParamountPlus today and what has helped drive the service over the last few months. Yo u look at the strength weve had in kids content with things like our reboot of iCarly, movies that weve released on the service, whether thats a SpongeBob, PAW Patrol, Infinite, those have all helped drive acquisition. Sports has been very powerful. In fact, we just finished the – our opening weekend of the NFL, which – where we saw more viewers consuming NFL content on our streaming platforms than on any opening weekend to - date. So, we continue to be excited about that as a differentiator for ParamountPlus . Weve had some great success with shows that have big, well - known IP and libraries associated with them. Think of a Survivor or a Big Brother. And weve also had success with unscripted content. RuPauls Drag Stars – excuse me – All Star Drag Race (sic) [RuPauls Drag Race All Stars] (11:16) was a very popular title on ParamountPlus. So, it does span a lot of different genres thats by design. And we think its – it will continue to be a strength going forward. And thats reflected in what we have coming up from a content perspective, which I think is equally exciting to what weve done. The CBS fall season will come to ParamountPlus soon, which means a lot of our perennial hits in NCIS, FBI, as an example, SEAL TEAM, were going to do an interesting thing wher e well have four episodes going on CBS, which will then launch it to become an exclusive title on ParamountPlus. We will be launching two original South Park movies later this year. Well have some big scripted dramas exclusive to ParamountPlus from Taylor She ridan, including the Mayor of Kingstown, which youve started to see some promos that I think look really, really cool, and Y: 1883, which is the backstory for Yellowstone, which, as you know, is one of the most popular shows on cable today. We also have s ome great kids programming coming in later this year, Star Trek: Prodigy, which will be another part of our broader Star Trek franchise tailored at younger audiences is a great show, and I think will contribute to ParamountPlus as well. So, its all about bre adth, its all about serving a lot of different audiences and continuing to differentiate our service. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q How should we think about reprioritization of content spend away from the linear business [ph] a nd to (13:04) your streaming businesses? And what does that say about your overall content spend for the company over the next couple of years? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Well, like if you step back, the reality is our business is becoming more and more streaming - oriented. Streaming revenue will be roughly 15% of total company revenue this year and obviously, meaningfully higher next year. So, youd expect that our streaming content expenses would grow as we lean more into streaming. We said as much during our Investor Day back in February, I think at that point I indicated that we expected streaming content expense to exceed $5 billion by 2024 thats compared to about a $1 billion in 2020. W ere already starting to see that happen. I think this year streaming content expense will be more than double what it was in 2020. But ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference Corrected Transcript 14 - Sep - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 6 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC thats not all incremental to total company content expense, because there is remixing going on, meaning reallocation of content investment from linear to streaming. Theres also a lot of content that does double duty on both platforms. Think about something like the NFL or our movies. They obviously generate revenue both in linear or traditional channels, as well as in str eaming. And were also finding ways to get more leverage from our content investments. Were increasingly focused on creating content for global audiences rather than having US content and then producing different content internationally. And were also le veraging more and more of our production capabilities outside the US, which allows us to be a lot more efficient in what it costs to produce content. So, when you put all those things together, the impact is that total company content expense will increase over time relative to where we are today, but at a lower rate than the increase in streaming content investment because of the remixing, because of content doing double duty, because of incremental leverage that were getting in those investments. And so, I think its a great balance between being able to drive streaming growth with a prudent level of investment. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q Right. And then over the next few years, do you view your DTC offering as incremental to your financial profile or is it more of a substitute for the linear networks, which we know are faced with secular decline subscriber declines? And maybe in that mix, you could even include film, given the reorganization and the changing of windows, how d o) you see overall DTC? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Its an interesting question, which I think is an important thing for investors to understand. And if you really boil it down, we strongly believe that streaming is a net addition to our business. Its not just replacement and that manifests in a variety of ways. So, if you look, for instance, at the affiliate or the subscription parts of our business, the fact is that streaming is a global o pportunity with more distribution channels than we have ever had in the linear world. And that translates to a much bigger TAM than what has been available to us in the past. I think streaming also has more long - term upside in the unit economics, because w e have more control over pricing and advertising monetization than what weve had in the historical linear environment. And the combination of those things means that the growth in streaming should more than offset declines in linear affiliate revenue. Sim ilarly, if you look at the advertising side of our business, were already seeing digital video advertising as a major growth driver, which in combination with rate increases on the linear side, allow us to be choosing. It allows us to number one, make ava ilable more total impressions for our advertisers than we could in the linear world. And it allows us to secure greater aggregate economics than through the combination of streaming and linear. Obviously, ParamountPlus and Pluto are the engines of creating th at inventory. So, they are key parts to making that equation work. So, [ph] as I said (18:19) both on the advertising and the affiliate side, its a net gain. The other important point here is that I dont think streaming and linear are necessarily a zero - sum game so to speak. The reality is we monetize many viewers today in both our linear and streaming services. And I think thatll continue to be the case for many years, because there is unique content available in both channels and were already seeing t hat when you think about the fact that the declines in affiliate viewership today are significantly smaller than the growth that we are seeing in streaming. And [ph] as I said (19:12) I think thatll continue to be the case for the next few years. So, stre aming is definitely additive to the business. And thats obviously the big reason that we are investing so aggressively behind it. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference Corrected Transcript 14 - Sep - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 7 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC So, why dont you talk about the deal structure you made, two recent deals with Sky/Comcast and theyre really different. One is in Western Europe, which seems more traditional in Sky markets. And the other one is largely Eastern Europe, [ph] is just (19:43) a little bit of crossover into Western, which is a JV. Can you ta lk about the strategic rationale between the varied approaches for the deals in each region and also the financial implications since reporting for both should be different? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc . A Yeah. Were very excited about both of these deals. And as you said, there are sort of some similarities and some differences. The consistent theme for both of them is that its all about achieving rapid global expansion of our streaming presence. But the way were going about it is different in each of these markets. So, let me add a little bit of color to those. So, the first deal that we announced, as you noted, is a commercial deal with Sky. Its focused on key Western European markets, including the UK, Italy, Germany, Ireland, Switzerland and Australia. And under that deal, Sky will distribute ParamountPlus to its paid television subscribers that take their Sky Cinema tier. Now thats millions of customers, who upon the launch of our service in thos e markets will immediately have access to ParamountPlus. We like that because it sits alongside our D2C owned and operated launch of ParamountPlus in those markets, but gives us sort of a slingshot into the market with a large number of subscribers coming onboar d very quickly with very attractive acquisition costs and lower churn than what we would see in a more traditional model. It also makes ParamountPlus an even more compelling consumer proposition in those markets, because it adds to the content that were able to provide, specifically ParamountPlus will become the exclusive home for Showtime series and Paramount Originals in those markets. ParamountPlus will become the co - exclusive home with Sky for [ph] Paramount Pay1 Movies (22:06). And the combination of those thi ngs, I think, really magnifies our presence in some of those key Western European markets and allows us to have a very accretive deal on day one. And those subs will be part of our standard sub reporting. These are the kinds of deals that we anticipated do ing when we put together our long - term plans earlier in the year. We do think this will allow us to move more quickly than we had originally expected, which is obviously very exciting to us. The other deal that we announced with Comcast, as you pointed ou t, is a joint venture and its focused on different types of markets, primarily smaller markets in mostly Eastern Europe. And in that case, were creating a new streaming service called SkyShowtime, which is a combination of both our content assets and Com cast content assets, which when you put those two things together, really is a powerful combination for consumers. I mean, think about franchises like Mission Impossible or Star Trek, Fast & Furious, Transformers, kids content like Shrek, PAW Patrol, Spong eBob, Dora, all being available through a single service. It is, I think, really going to be attractive to customers in those markets. And although they are relatively small markets, it does cover about 90 million broadband homes today. So, we think thats an interesting opportunity. And for us, its a very cost - efficient way to go after those customers. We will share both investment in the venture with Comcast and we will share a control. Unlike the commercial deal with Sky, because of the JV structure in this deal, these subs will not be part of our standard sub reporting and in fact, theyre incremental to the expectations that we shared earlier in the year. So, each of these deals, I think, is interesting sort of for its own right. But at the end of the day, its all about helping us become a bigger player on the global streaming stage. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q So, when you go into new markets, like how do – what are the considerations, whether you do a more traditional deal or do a JV? And as you expand like – to expand your business even in existing markets, like whether its the ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference Corrected Transcript 14 - Sep - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 8 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC US or other areas, to get – can you talk about scaling quickly, breadth of content, depth of content, does it make sense in – to do these kind s of deals, which deal make sense in which areas or you go it alone, I guess? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Well, I think the way people should think of that is it, we look at every market and we start with our default position that we want to be a major D2C player with our owned and operated service on a fully independent basis, because we think that generally, we bring a very powerful combination of content and IP and production assets that gi ve us the ability to build a very compelling streaming service, as youve seen us do in key markets, obviously, including the US. There are some markets where we have the ability to enhance those positions through partnerships. And that leads to a variety of different models in different markets. You saw that we entered Latin America and Australia as an example on a full O&O basis. Again, those are markets where we have that full complement of content, existing MVPD relationships that can be leveraged for distribution. We have promotional channels that are available to us. We have local production capability. So, it makes a ton of sense to sort of replicate our US model in those markets. There are other markets, like we just talked about, UK, Germany, Italy , where we start with an O&O presence, and then we augment that with distribution partnerships, just like what were doing with Sky in the UK, because those help accelerate what were doing to try to grow our streaming presence. But then there are also mar kets where JVs make sense, like we talked about with SkyShowtime. There are other examples of that where we found success. India is, I think, a great example where we have – theres real interest in our content in those markets, but we dont have the same local presence that we do in the US or the UK as an example, and in that case, we chose to enter into a joint venture with Reliance, which is obviously a very powerful distribution partner, and I think thats a better approach for us there. So, it is marke t by market. It starts with figuring out if we can go it alone, and then looking to see if there are opportunities to enhance that with partnerships. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q Is there an opportunity to further integrate Showtime and ParamountPlus over time domestically? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A [ph] Okay (28:10). Weve sort of built our streaming strategy around the notion of a streaming ecosystem that has a free pay and premium component to it. And we continue to like that strategy. I think its worthwhile to - date. It gives us the ability to cross - pollinate between those services while at the same time serving the broadest possible base of customers. And I think w e found interesting ways to create value out of that ecosystem by sampling, by doing promotions, by creating bundles across those different services. For example, we have created channels on Pluto TV that make ParamountPlus content available. Weve got a Para mount+ [ph] Epix (29:06) channel. Weve got a channel on Pluto that allows people to sample Showtime content. Similarly, on ParamountPlus, we just recently launched the first three seasons of Billions ahead of the launch of the new season on Showtime. Weve g ot a ParamountPlus Showtime bundle that well be launching later this month. So, we really like what we can do from a marketing and an acquisition perspective with that portfolio. Similarly, on the advertising and the distribution side, having all three servi ces, I think does unlock incremental value. The EyeQ platform is our one - stop shop that allows advertisers to buy high - quality digital video inventory across that entire portfolio. So, its a way of having a larger audience that we can make available to ad vertisers. And similarly, anytime were in a distribution negotiation, whether its with a connected TV platform, a Roku, an Amazon, a traditional MVPD, when we show up with Pluto, Showtime, ParamountPlus, its really just more arrows in our quiver to find va lue that we can inject into ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference Corrected Transcript 14 - Sep - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 9 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC these partnerships. And the reality is, some of our partners care more about free, some of them are very focused on subscription. And so, having that portfolio allows us to be very creative in how we put those partnerships toget her. So, its obviously still early days for us in streaming, but we like the strategy that we have. And I think, well continue to find ways to use all those three services to complement one another. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q Right. And youve launched the ParamountPlus [ph] ad - light (31:03) product in June, so a couple of months ago. What – can you talk about the relative mix of net adds since that time between premium versus the [ph] ad - light (31:13)? And how different are the economics between the two services? Some of your competitors have said they actually have higher ARPU in their [ph] ad - light (31:22) product versus their pure subscription? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc . A Yeah. So, as you pointed out, our Essential tier, which is our ad - supported product, launched relatively recently. I think thus far, its performed very much in line with expectations, which is to say there is a significant portion of our new subscribers who take the ad - supported tier. And as you hinted, the economics between the two are not as different as some might imagine because of the contributions from advertising. And we do think that while ARPUs on both services will continue to grow b oth domestically and internationally, the delta between the two will probably narrow over time. And we could get to a point – were not there today, but we could get to a point where, yeah, the ad - supported service actually generates higher ARPUs than the ad - free service. So, we dont really think about trying to steer customers into one service or the other. Were really focused on getting people into whichever tier of service is going to be the most sticky for them, because at the end of the day, if the u nit economics dont differ that much between the services, the way you maximize lifetime value is by making sure people stick around as long as possible. So, we want our customers in whichever tier fits the best for them. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, Bo fA Securities, Inc. Q I mean, Pluto [ph] seems (32:57) incredibly – given how strong the ad market is, I mean, Pluto is sitting in a kind of a sweet spot at the moment. And you said this will be a $1 billion business this year. How big do you think it wil l be over the next – I dont know – whatever, three years, three to five? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. [indiscernible] (33:14), I mean, Pluto has just been an incredible performer breaking $1 billion this year. Thats relative to I think what was probably well under $100 million of revenue just two or three years ago. And we expect that the growth in Pluto will continue. Its an extremely powerful, capital - efficient, multidimensional business m odel that we really like. Going forward, there will be growth still coming from MAU growth, but also increased engagement and improvements in monetization. Weve got a goal of achieving between 100 million and 120 million MAUs in Pluto by the end of 2024. Were well on our way to achieving that. We finished Q2 at just over 52 million MAUs. Were also seeing some great growth in engagement on Pluto TV. We announced last quarter that time spent per user was up 45% domestically, and thats largely driven by ou r ubiquitous kind of connected TV presence and the continued expansion of content on Pluto TV. I think weve got over 200,000 hours of content on the service today. And monetization is continuing to mature and evolve. Weve made big gains in sell - through. I think were in a great position to continue to drive price on Pluto. And theres plenty of innovation that we can bring to the ad product itself with more data capabilities ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference Corrected Transcript 14 - Sep - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 10 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC continuing to optimize ad load, et cetera. So, were all in on Pluto. Were very bullish about its future. And I think there are a lot of folks who probably underestimate the capability and the value of Pluto, just given its current scale and growth trajectory relative to peers, and I think were going to continue to prove exactly wha t an incredible asset it is. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q So, were getting a few investor questions, Ill just ask one before I go back to kind of – we have to get to advertising, but – the question is, would you consider giving more subscriber detail, net adds and ARPU to be more aligned with some of the companies that do report that like Netflix and Disney? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. We made some changes to our disclosure earlier this year, as I think many people know, in order to try to provide more visibility as to our progress on streaming, including the breakdown of streaming revenue as between subscription and advertising. We will continue to look at th ose disclosures. I think, right now, that provides a pretty good sense of where were going. But I think its been well - received by investors, and well continue to evaluate whether there are other things we should do as we continue to evolve our streaming business. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q Okay. Lets move on to just advertising. The upfront market was beyond anybodys [indiscernible] (36:42) – beyond anything weve ever seen. And it was all parts of it, including digital ad vertising. So, could you talk about how digital played a role in the upfront this year? What are your expectations as we go – [ph] get to (36:56) – as we see the impact of that in Q4 and beyond? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Well, [ph] as you said (37:00), I mean, digital was a huge part of the story of this years upfront. It really is the thing that allows us to provide a great reach story for advertisers by combining linear, which is obviously st ill the place they go to get the broadest reach, with large numbers of incremental impressions and a very large audience through our digital assets, which, or as I mentioned earlier, can be bought through EyeQ. EyeQ gives them access to 60 million househol ds of very, very high - quality digital video inventory. When I say high quality, I mean, this is viewing a full professionally produced episodic content on the big screen, very different than what advertisers get through things like a YouTube or a Facebook. So, it was, I think, a very powerful and very successful story for us in the upfront. Its one of the things that helped us negotiate some very nice rate increases, and will be part of what underpins our advertising story as we move from Q3 into Q4 and st art to get the benefits of that new upfront pricing. Remember, were still operating under the prior broadcast year through Q3, which includes upfront pricing that was negotiated during the depths of the pandemic. So, Q4 will be the first quarter where we ll have the combination of improved pricing and continued growth in digital demand coming together. So, were really looking forward to that. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Q Okay. Im going to squeeze one last question, and even th ough were sort of out of time, thats the mandatory capital allocation. I guess, broadly, could you speak about priorities? But also, you did that opportunistic equity raise, should be getting proceeds from Simon & Schuster soon. The Black Rock building i s for sale. Your balance ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) Bank of America Media, Communications & Entertainment Conference Corrected Transcript 14 - Sep - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 11 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC sheet is in a really strong position. I dont know. Could you – priorities and also are there other assets for sale? I mean, there has been speculation about Paramount [ph] a lot (39:23). So, all of that rolls into one. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Ch opra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Well, obviously, sort of those two questions are related. I think as weve said before, one of our strategic priorities is to divest non - core assets and to use the proceeds of that to invest in our priorities, which really are about funding streaming growth, continuing to return capital to shareholders through our dividend and then to delever our balance sheet. As you pointed out, weve made progress on all of those, whether its the sale of Simon & Schuster, sale of the Black Rock building. We sold CNET last year. We will continue to shift assets from non - core legacy things to assets that can help us in streaming, including acquisitions that we think can bolster our streamin g presence, including things like the – buying a controlling position at Miramax that we did earlier this year, some of the international acquisitions weve made to try to help us get access to more local content, more international production capability, et cetera. So, its all consistent with where were going. And as you pointed out, I think weve got a very strong balance sheet with which to continue invest in streaming. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jessica Reif Ehrlich Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc. Great. With that, Naveen, we are out of time. But thank you so much for joining us. And Ill be back at 12.30 with Warner Music Group. Thank you. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, ViacomCBS, Inc. Thanks Jessica."
"Paramount";"Event Transcript";"VIAC-USQ_Transcript_2021-09-22.pdf REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT VIAC.OQ - ViacomCBS Inc at Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: SEPTEMBER 22, 2021 / 2:30PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Robert Marc Bakish ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Brett Joseph Feldman Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst PRESENTATION Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst All right. Welcome back. Im Brett Feldman, Goldmans U.S. media analyst. It is my great pleasure to welcome back to Communacopia in our 30th year, Bob Bakish, the CEO of ViacomCBS. Bob, thanks for spending some time with us this morning. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Great to be here, Brett, despite it being over video. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Hopefully, the last time. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Exactly. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst All right. Well, this has been a remarkable year for ViacomCBS. You completed a significant capital raise. You launched your flagship streaming service, ParamountPlus in the U.S. in a number of international markets and you entered into several partnerships with Comcast. How do you see the company strategically positioned as we head into 2022? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So look, Brett, despite the broader macro backdrop, 2021, in fact, has been a very good year for ViacomCBS and I think one where we really began to demonstrate the incredible value creation potential the company has. When you look at the company, you really see we have all the pieces required to succeed. Weve got a best-in-class content creation capability with a scaled library, and thats across genres and demographics. Weve got a rapidly scaling streaming business, both in subscription and in ad-supported. And weve got a legacy business, which continues to be strong and a powerful engine really for streaming transformation. It provides cash, it provides promotional reach, it provides relationships, all that we can build on. 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. SEPTEMBER 22, 2021 / 2:30PM, VIAC.OQ - ViacomCBS Inc at Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference (Virtual) And our company benefits from an extremely strong capital position that was bolstered by the capital raise we did earlier in the year and the ongoing material dispositions were doing of noncore assets. And that in turn is enabling us to invest in a very compelling ViacomCBS opportunity in streaming. So fundamentally, were in a very good place. And as I look to 22, Id highlight 2 things: First, I really see our international footprint as a key accelerant for us in global streaming, which will unlock a massive total addressable market opportunity for us. And second, Im super excited about the content build on our flagship service, ParamountPlus, and confident that well enjoy the fruits of it. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst All right. Were going to spend some time talking about all of that. But before we do, last week, you announced a few key management changes. You appointed Brian Robbins as President and CEO of Paramount Pictures in addition to maintaining his current responsibilities leading Nickelodeon. And you also announced that Paramount Television Studios will become part of the premium network group under the leadership of David Nevins, who is the Chairman and CEO of Showtime. Why are you making these organizational changes? And what operational or strategic changes should investors expect as Brian and David take on their new roles? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director So sure. But before getting into it, I really want to highlight the amazing job that Jim Gianopulos did coming in. He really stabilized Paramount, turned it around and rebuilt it over the last few years. And as you know, he headed Paramount when it was a very difficult position. And hes leaving it in great shape. And for that, I, the Board, the company are very thankful to him. Now at the core, the changes we announced are about better aligning our organization with our strategy and creating an environment to further strengthen execution. The changes will position Paramount to lean more into franchises and more into streaming while maintaining its extraordinary theatrical legacy including, as exemplified by the fantastic slate we have coming in 2022. And as you noted, it brings together Paramount Television and Showtimes premium content capabilities, which further scales our capabilities in that key sector of the market. So its really about creating a studio for the future. And as were doing that, Im super excited about the leadership we have in place. Let me start with Brian. Brian Robbins is a content creator, hes a franchise builder and hes a collaborator, which, to me, is an incredibly compelling combination of talents. You look at his resume, and he has a broad and strong content track record. Hes done films, hes done streaming, hes done television, hes done digital. And over the last 3 years, he completely rebuilt the Nickelodeon pipeline. And that was by both leveraging franchises and creating new hits. I think equally importantly, he really understands and values todays multi-platform world. He sees the role of theatrical distribution as a powerful franchise builder. You saw that most recently with what he did with PAW Patrol. He also knows how compelling content drives streaming, as he demonstrated with SpongeBob, iCarly, Rugrats and PAW Patrol on ParamountPlus this year. And he understands how social media drives them in, and that really dates back to his Awesomeness deals. As you recall, he founded AwesomenessTV. And so the combination of him now leading Paramount, which, by the way, includes Paramount Players, and Nickelodeon gives him incredible resources to create incremental value through franchises and multi-platform execution. Likewise, with televisions side, David Nevins brings a lot to the table in his newly expanded role. He now has oversight of Paramount Television, which will be part, as you said, part of the premium network group. He, too, is an extremely strong creative executive and has a proven track record and really exceptional taste. So the change allows us to get more leverage from that and is thus additive to what were doing in scripted content. And it really builds on the recent move we made to have him begin working with Paramount TV and more broadly on production for ParamountPlus. So I look really forward to, Im sure, an incredible set of content thats going to now emanate from this larger studio operation he has. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. SEPTEMBER 22, 2021 / 2:30PM, VIAC.OQ - ViacomCBS Inc at Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference (Virtual) Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Earlier, you just mentioned the success that PAW Patrol had at the box office. Despite the fact that it also debuted day-and-date on ParamountPlus, but youve indicated that most movies will continue to be released with 45-day exclusive theatrical exhibition windows. So I really have 2 questions here. The first is how are you thinking about your film strategy more broadly as the business becomes more streaming-centric? And then for films with theatrical releases, why does a 45-day exclusive window continue to make sense where weve seen some other studios go to windows as short as 17 days? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So I dont think it will surprise you when I tell you were spending a lot of time on release strategy and really testing different models to maximize the value of that film slate in this evolving landscape, particularly in this COVID-ruled space. So most recently with PAW Patrol, that was actually our first day-and-date release. When I say day-and-date, I mean streaming and theatrical simultaneously. We think thats actually a very good model for kids and family films, again, particularly in this COVID-impacted time, because it gives consumers optionality to view the product where they feel the most comfortable and we did a bunch of research on that. The result of that move, though, was a film which did very well both theatrically and it was a significant driver for ParamountPlus, where its actually now one of the most watched originals to date. So to us, its clear that, that combined strategy really drove the incremental performance. And in fact, if you look at the box office piece of it, it actually outperformed our green light. And the green light was done assuming it was a traditional theatrical-only release. So very compelling on the performance side, and it really demonstrated the potential for us to [event-ise] content, really leveraging the full set of ViacomCBS platforms to do so. And that even included our consumer products business. I mean we promoted PAW Patrol both through theaters and on ParamountPlus on over 2 million boxes at retail. So that, too, helped to build excitement around it. So we like the day-and-date strategy for families. We are also doing some direct to ParamountPlus exclusives. Weve got 2 coming shortly in the form of Paranormal Activity and The In Between. And so we think exclusive availability, particularly at lower budget levels, which these films are lower budget levels, is a compelling value creation opportunity for streaming. And then in general, for the bigger films, as you said, we do like to fast follow theatrical to pay one strategy of 45 days. I continue to think thats the sweet spot of driving theatrical revenue and streaming growth in general. We used that strategy very effectively for A Quiet Place Part II. So its not that were going one direction for every film. Were actually using a strategy which has a range of tactics, again, designed to maximize the value of a film across this now broader ecosystem. But as we do that, theatrical definitely still matters. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst All right, talking a bit now about ParamountPlus. One of the most important metrics in a subscription-based business model is churn. And in the streaming world, low churn is generally reflective of high engagement. So once again, I kind of have a 2-part question, which is can you just provide some color on how ParamountPlus subscribers have engaged with your content? And really, the second part is more of a follow-up, which is were trying to think about the benefit of original series versus reboots versus movies versus sports because you flowed all of that content into the service since its been launched. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So Brett, look, the good news is were really seeing a diversity of content popping on the service. Its driving both subscriber additions and engagement. The engagement piece is obviously important to managing churn. We really think this is, again, another validator of our thesis of the value of a broad service, and it really sets the stage for continued growth and momentum for ParamountPlus. When you look under the covers at whats driving the consumer, there is no question our film product is working in the stream. And again, as I just mentioned, its definitely a film-by-film strategy. We talked about the success of PAW Patrol. I mentioned A Quiet Place II. By the way, A Quiet Place 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. SEPTEMBER 22, 2021 / 2:30PM, VIAC.OQ - ViacomCBS Inc at Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference (Virtual) II, great from both an acquisition and engagement perspective. And as part of that, we put A Quiet Place I on the service, and that really had very good engagement as well. And that adds -- or in addition to that, we are using like the whole library for Paramount. And in fact, if you looked at August, library titles, not new releases, but library titles accounted for about 2/3 of the total film minutes consumed. So were really seeing films kick in as a powerful and multifaceted part of ParamountPlus. At the same time, Nickelodeon is really working for us. The best example probably, which I talked about on our earnings call, was iCarly. But weve also seen strong performances from Rugrats, the new Camp Coral series and also the broader new library. So thats a place where were taking our legacy leadership in kids and transitioning that leadership into streaming, and its definitely happening. Theyre scripted, which everyone loves scripted on streaming, particularly probably the people on this call. And scripted is working for us, too. We have titles like Why Women Kill, The Good Fight, of course, multiple Star Treks, and they are all nicely contributing to acquisition and to engagement. Something that I think is undervalued outside our company, but recognized within our company is unscripted. Thats really starting to kick in for ParamountPlus. MTVs The Challenge worked really well for us. RuPaul, who, by the way, just became the winningest black talent in history from an Emmy perspective, really working well for us, particularly on the acquisition side. So its a broad range of entertainment product thats driving the consumer. Add to that sports. Theres no question, sports has been an engine. That, too, is part of our thesis. Remember, ParamountPlus news, sports a mountain of entertainment. We believe in the linkage between sports and entertainment, and were seeing it. We made a real commitment to soccer, European football, and were very happy with how thats doing. And now, of course, football is back, American football. The NFL, 2 weeks in, once again, proving its value and the FCC as well. So put it all together, we really like what were seeing in the metrics, both in terms of subs and what were seeing as a trend line on churn. And its that mix of entertainment, including movies, franchises, particularly in kids, plus sports and events, its a real differentiator for ParamountPlus, and its definitely driving success. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Lets talk a little bit more about subscriber trends. You added 6.5 million streaming subscribers in the second quarter. That was actually higher than the net adds that you captured of 6 million in the first quarter, which was the quarter you launched ParamountPlus with a lot of marketing behind it. But the streaming market does appear to be getting more competitive and consumers continue to emerge from lockdown. What do you see as the primary drivers of ParamountPlus subscriber growth in the back half and going forward? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director So we start, Brett, with like Im thrilled with the momentum were seeing at ParamountPlus. When we came up with the idea and strategy for it, I fundamentally believed in it. I believed in this idea for a differentiated product. I just mentioned it, one thats broad, includes news, sports and this full spectrum of entertainment and one that can benefit from our extensive reach and relationships globally. And youre really seeing that thesis prove out and its going to keep going. So in terms of going forward, I think the drivers for ParamountPlus are a mix of both content and continued expansion. On the content side, were in the late innings or the third quarter. Weve had a great third quarter. Films, I mentioned A Quiet Place II and PAW Patrol. On the soccer side, both CONCACAF and now UEFA and American football, the NFL and the SEC. On the episodic television side, we got Big Brother, Love Island, Star Trek: Lower Decks. On the kids side, we have Camp Coral coming back for a second season and Rugrats. And then you look to Q4, which is about to start, you got the whole CBS fall slate, which looks fantastic. By the way, we won the first night of the broadcast season, which is the first time we did that since 2017. Weve got the first of our original South Park movies from a new deal we did with Matt and Trey. And then we got compelling new scripted shows, including from Yellowstone creator, Taylor Sheridan, and thats both the Yellowstone prequel, Y: 1883, and a totally new show, Mayor of Kingstown. 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. SEPTEMBER 22, 2021 / 2:30PM, VIAC.OQ - ViacomCBS Inc at Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference (Virtual) So Matt (sic) [Brett], we only talk on these. I want to do something a little different at the moment, which is Im going to show a commercial. Were in the media business. Why not show a commercial? And were going to target this very valuable audience. So what Im going to show you is a trailer for Mayor of Kingstown. And I think it will give you a sense of why were so excited about the scripted shows we have coming. This particular show stars Jeremy Renner. Its all about life in a prison town and all the drama that goes with it. Beyond the show being great, I love the way were rolling it out. Were actually going to bill it on the Paramount Network behind the first 2 episodes of Yellowstone and then move it exclusively to ParamountPlus. So checkout Mayor. (presentation) Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director So look, we have the first 2 episodes of this in the can. Taylor and Antoine have really put something incredible together, and its really the tip of the iceberg. We have so much more coming across the full range of ParamountPlus genres. So the second half of 21 feels really good to me. And Im confident that the money were putting into ParamountPlus to build our streaming content will further build on the momentum we have seen to date. And so thanks for letting me show that. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Happy to do it. Its exciting to know that Communacopia is now an ad-supported streaming service. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Hey, its a valuable target audience. Why not? Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Exactly. Well, listen, you just gave us a great overview of the content that youll be launching really oriented towards the U.S. audience. Can you talk a little bit more about your global content strategy? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Sure. I think it starts with our company is really a global production powerhouse. We are, in fact, one of the largest creators of English and Spanish language content globally. As we speak, we have 900 series in the works. Were creating content across 5 continents. We absolutely have a global content strategy for ParamountPlus. And the reason is pretty simple, global content utilization is ultimately key to driving scale and margins. And were going to use ParamountPlus increasingly to distribute our entertainment content globally. And it is really about entertainment content outside the U.S. In the U.S., its news, sports and a mountain of entertainment. We dont have the same assets in news and sports ex-U.S., so the global push is really entertainment. And when I say entertainment, were doing a couple of things. One is were making ParamountPlus the international home of an increasing volume of our U.S.-produced content. And that includes evolving our output deals to enable that. And we just did that, for example, in the U.K. as part of our recently announced Sky deal. In addition, were taking our most successful U.S. formats and rolling them out internationally, and thats through a hub-based model for production where well set up a production in one particular location and then well run multiple crews through it for each market. And thats particularly relevant in unscripted. And Im very excited about the economies of scale and the way we get real local relevance that way. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. SEPTEMBER 22, 2021 / 2:30PM, VIAC.OQ - ViacomCBS Inc at Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference (Virtual) Content will go the other way, too. So we are taking international shows, dubbing them and putting them in the U.S. This is something some of the other streamers have shown really works. And we have tremendous capabilities, a lot of volume out there were going to leverage. And were also going to selectively use offshore capabilities, which really have cost advantage relative to, say, Hollywood to produce content we historically made in the U.S. to manage down cost per episode. And were going to do this across all genres, kids, scripted, unscripted, and it not only is going to help our economics and margins but its also going to accelerate content availability on ParamountPlus, which in a world where speed to market is important and building consumer engagement is important, accelerating content availability is tremendously valuable. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Well, I think a great follow-up question to that is to talk about something you alluded to, which is that, over the last several weeks, you announced a few key strategic agreements with Comcast and Sky in Europe. So the questions really are how will these factor into your expansion from 25 international markets, which is what youre targeting by the end of this year to 45 by the end of next year? And maybe more broadly, what makes these partnerships accretive to what would have been a stand-alone streaming strategy in Europe? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sure. So in 21, were already in a broad range of places. Were not targeting 25 countries in markets were already there, as we speak. And weve done a bunch of things. Id highlight both ParamountPlus and Pluto in all of Latin America now. We recently launched ParamountPlus, the last launch was in Australia. And in fact, today, we launched Pluto in Italy or we announced were launching it. Its actually going to launch, I think, October 28. But -- so we are moving quickly on international expansion, but the big year for it is really going to be 2022. And thats when you will see the tremendous value of our international footprint kick in to drive global streaming. That starts with the fact that our ex-U.S. content lineup really scales in 2022 and [that will] benefit all the services weve already launched. And by the launches in key Western European markets, including the U.K., Germany and Italy. Here, our recently -- one of our recently announced deals with Sky will be a major catalyst because were going to be packaged with Sky Cinema, giving us really millions and millions of subs at launch. And importantly, its not only driving subs, its actually accretive to revenue day 1, and it doesnt prevent us from accessing broader D2C opportunities in those markets. So thats super exciting. The other exciting thing about 2022 vis-a-vis your question on Sky is youre going to see us launch Sky Showtime. Thats a 50-50 JV between ViacomCBS and Sky. Now we own a consolidated subsidiary but its one which I see has a very compelling path to value creation. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Im going to ask you a follow-up there on Sky Showtime. The product is going to feature content from across both their portfolio and the ViacomCBS portfolio. Why do you see an advantage in having a broader lineup of premium content in a single service in those markets versus your multi-service approach in the U.S., where, as you alluded to, you have a number of services that you structure your content across? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director So its a great question. The one major thing I learned in my decade running businesses on the ground all over the world is the value of tailoring strategy and execution to specific markets. So yes, weve said we see a massive global opportunity in streaming because we do. But that doesnt mean that the way to unlock it is the same all over the world. And in fact, when you start to decompose the world into its pieces, sure, there are clear priority markets, markets that are substantial size or maybe where we have critical mass of capabilities in the form of local content and local distribution. Those are markets, like the U.K., where we have 100% owned and operated strategy. Latin America is like that, too. But at the same time, theres tons of what I would call second-tier markets. Those tend -- that second tier is more correlated to size, although you could argue theres some other qualitative factors in there. And really, when you look at those markets, the question is, when do you want to go in and whats the right investment level. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. SEPTEMBER 22, 2021 / 2:30PM, VIAC.OQ - ViacomCBS Inc at Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference (Virtual) So when we thought about that, in particular, a set of smaller, largely Eastern European markets, we quickly saw a different path to accelerate penetration of the opportunity and to maximize ROI. And that was to partner. Now thats a new idea for streaming for us, but its actually something weve done before many times in our traditional business. And weve done it in Europe, weve done it in India, weve done it in Asia. So its not a new model per se. And we know the model works. And when you look at the Sky Showtime deal in particular, theres really 3 things you should be thinking about as benefits. The first one is probably obvious when you look at it or if youve seen the releases or anything like that, the content offering is very strong. It will have over 10,000 hours of content at launch, first-run exclusives and library from NBCU, from Sky and from ViacomCBS. So its a great product. It also gets us speed to market relative to going and doing these markets one by one on a 100% owner basis. And in fact, were going to quickly scale in 20, again, mostly smaller European markets. And then its cost-efficient. Its obvious, but by partnering, we can share the cost to launch. And we see that as beneficial as we think about capital allocation in pursuit of that larger global streaming strategy opportunity, particularly in those priority markets. There are probably 2 other things Id mention on Sky Showtime. The first one is this venture plugs into our content pipeline and, in fact, enhances our global economies of content scale because were feeding all our content to it, and thats obviously important to the financial trajectory of the overall business. And the second thing, look, we know the Sky folks very well. Weve been in business with them for over 3 decades and, as I said, have multiple joint ventures. These guys understand local market execution. We have a track record of creating value together. And Im very excited about our ability to partner with them in this way. So Sky Showtime, super interesting. I think its going to be a great success, not a strategy for everywhere. But in these markets, it makes sense, and I cant wait for it really to launch in 2022. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Looking back at your ARPU, your streaming ARPU grew sequentially in the second quarter, reflecting high conversion of free trial subs into paying subs. How should we think about streaming ARPU? And what do you see as the key drivers? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director So most of the conversation these days is about subs and MAUs and the like. But when you look at ARPU, as you put -- look, weve seen good early ARPU growth, average revenue per user. And when I look at that going forward, its probably useful to think about domestic versus international because there are some different things going on, but ARPU is going to grow both domestically and internationally and it really has substantial upside. So heres the way you should think about it. On the domestic side, well get a benefit from continued conversion of trial subs to pay subs. Thats something were very happy with the rates that were seeing and are confident that will continue. It will -- domestic ARPU will be influenced by the mix of our essential, which is the $4.99 product; and our premium, if you will, which is the $9.99 product. On the premium side, we do see ARPU growing over time as we will, over time, be able to raise price. And on the essential side, I actually think the ARPU of the essential tier will be higher than the premium tier because you get the ad sales benefit, which will become very material, and you still also have the upside -- the opportunity to raise price. So good outlook for ARPU domestically. Internationally, I think the thing to focus on is that the next wave of countries, like I said, we just launched Australia and in 22 is heavy Europe. Those are higher ARPU markets relative to our critical mass right now, which is Latin America. So that should drive ARPU nicely. And then theres the Sky deal, which covers the Sky, what I call O&O deal, which covers the U.K., Germany and Italy. As I said, that will add millions of subscribers out 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. SEPTEMBER 22, 2021 / 2:30PM, VIAC.OQ - ViacomCBS Inc at Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference (Virtual) of the gate by bundling ParamountPlus with Sky Cinema. And actually, when we look at the ARPU from that, its higher than our legacy pay business in those markets. So the outlook for ARPU is very compelling. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst I want to follow up on something you touched on, which is the success youve had with ad-supported streaming. Pluto is 100% ad-supported. That has seen very strong growth. And you just acknowledged that youre doing great with advertising on the lower tier, the ad-light tier, the essentials tier of ParamountPlus. So really, the question is what do you think is driving the strength in streaming advertising revenues? And how is it shaping your product strategy as well as your pricing strategy for your suite of free and subscription-based products? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So I love the ad business. There was a bunch of years pre-international where I was the Chief Operating Officer of domestic ad sales for Viacom legacy. You look at our company, ViacomCBS, theres no question were a leader in the ad business. And that leadership is underpinned by the compelling content that we pair with advertising, the fact that we have broad reach in the form of things like broadcast network and data targeted delivery platforms, including Pluto as well as really a best-in-class sales organization. So our leadership is not surprising, and it is strong. You look at streaming, its really critical to the paradigm. Why? It adds substantial incremental inventory in the form of impressions, has targeting advantage and it actually strengthens our reach equation, particularly when you pair it with linear. You look at streaming ad-supported, I think its fair to say we saw the opportunity early. That led to our acquisition of Pluto, which we closed in Q1 of 2019. That really gave us a very significant scale of impressions out of the gate. And at the time, a large portion of those were unsold. And then what we did was we turbocharged it with content and we tied it into our sales machine. But we left its entrepreneurial spirit untouched, and that business grew massively. Just to give you a sense, in 2018, the last full year before we owned it, it did $70 million in revenue. This year, 3 years later, it will do over $1 billion. So that thing has proven itself in spades and its going to keep going. And I think its also cool to note that we did it without pushing price. So that means in todays marketplace relative to the, call it, competition in streaming, were very well positioned from a value proposition standpoint, which gives us a nice lever going forward. I mentioned that Pluto will be over $1 billion this year. All-in streaming advertising, over $2 billion for us this year. So its already a material business. Obviously, the growth rates are very strong, and this thing has a lot of room to run. And you think -- because you look -- just look at the drivers of it, and they actually are multiplicative when you put them together. You talked about Pluto, we still see MAU growth opportunity. Realistically, its probably more weighted to international, but were adding a bunch of markets. So youll see us quarter-to-quarter continue to report MAU growth. Time spent continues to grow nicely, and thats because consumers are building habits with Pluto. And by the way, Pluto, we used to say about 100,000 hours in the U.S. on its platform. Now we say its 150,000 hours. Its actually more than that. So that, in turn, time spent is creating more ad impressions to sell. We are actually adding new product, including the $4.99 plan at Paramount. Thats ad-supported. We have nice demand for that in the upfront. And then lastly, theres price, which I mentioned has room to run. So on the ad sales side and the ad-supported streaming side, theres big upside because were serving our clients with really compelling products, which help solve their marketing challenges. And look, thats a good thing for our company. And again, Im tremendously excited about where we will continue to take this. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Id like to talk about sports for just a little bit. CBS has a long and storied history as a sports broadcaster, and youve made sports a key element of ParamountPlus, as you talked about earlier. But weve also seen the cost of sports broadcast rights escalate as both traditional media companies and tech companies bid for these packages. What is ViacomCBS overall sports strategy? And how do you intend to manage the transition of sports viewing from linear platforms to streaming platforms? 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. SEPTEMBER 22, 2021 / 2:30PM, VIAC.OQ - ViacomCBS Inc at Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference (Virtual) Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So sports is a critical component of CBS and now ParamountPlus. So its important to our company. Its important in linear, its important in streaming. You see that manifest itself as recently as the return of the NFL this season. We had the #1 NFL ad in a double-header week 1. We had a very strong week 2. Theres tremendous ad demand for that product. And by the way, the product worked both on CBS linear and on ParamountPlus, ParamountPlus both in terms of subscriber acquisition and engagement. So we like sports. Its not only about the NFL. We like our early experience with soccer. Now those deals are very heavily weighted to ParamountPlus. There is some linear exposure. Its not a simulcast like the NFL. But whether its UEFA or CONCACAF or Serie A, which is the Italian league that we got this year, theres no question thats been added to ParamountPlus. And if you actually look at last week where the latest UEFA Champion League season started, we had the 2 largest streaming days ever for soccer on the [surface]. So we like that piece of the business. And to your question about escalating sports rights and how the streaming fits in, in general, we like a model where we have ability to benefit both linear and streaming, and we have both sides of the rights because that allows us to manage transaction and, again, use sports to drive value creation and growth in streaming, which is exactly what we see happening and will be the path to continue on. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Your affiliate revenues have shown considerable strength. They actually grew 9% year-on-year in the second quarter, even as industry-wide pay TV subscribers declined at, call it, mid-single-digit rate. Your business has benefited from some recent carriage agreements, so including YouTube TV and Hulu Live, although youre going to start lapping some of those over the coming quarters. What performance should investors expect from your linear affiliate revenues? And for how long can they continue to outperform peers? Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. So Im extremely happy with where we are from an affiliate perspective. And what youve seen is really a multi-quarter track record of affiliate renewals, which are based on the strength of ViacomCBS in the space. No question, were a cornerstone provider to this distribution community. Obviously, that started with linear networks. Then we had a strategy with ad and advanced advertising, and now streaming is a fundamental component of every deal that we do. And working with these distributors, in streaming in particular, we see theres a real opportunity to advance that business. Remember, we can work with them both in the free, i.e. Pluto; and pay, i.e., ParamountPlus and Showtime OTT space. Theres opportunity in the set-top box level. Theres opportunity in broadband only. And theres growing opportunity in mobile as MVPDs and the like build that business out. The most recent examples of it for our company are Charter and Cox, where we did holistic renewals. But in the words of Tom Rutledge, we modernized the relationship, including streaming ads, an additive and mutually beneficial component. So we like where that is. Now remember, I say additive, but on a reporting basis, we have linear affiliate as one line and streaming distribution as a separate line. So the streaming value in the MVPD deals is not included in the linear number. But nonetheless, there is real value in there for sure. As we look at the back half of 21, we continue to expect our affiliate revenue, again, excluding streaming, so linear affiliate revenue, in your terminology, to grow in the back half of the year. It will grow at a slower pace because, as you pointed out, were lapping the benefit of new distribution on YouTube TV and other renewals which started in Q2 of 20. But nonetheless, we continue to feel very good about our position, including our ability to be rewarded for the value we provide to this important constituent. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst All right. Bob, thank you so much for being here with us. We certainly look forward to doing this live with you next year, and Im very much looking forward to Mayor of Kingstown. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. SEPTEMBER 22, 2021 / 2:30PM, VIAC.OQ - ViacomCBS Inc at Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference (Virtual) Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Yes. Well, look, Brett, thanks for having me. Let me just close by briefly saying ViacomCBS is in a fundamentally good position, and we have really strong momentum. At the core, were focused on creating and delivering compelling content to consumers all around the world, and were seeing that resonate. Distribution is evolving, streaming is critical, and were really leaning into that. So we really are excited about where we are. Were excited about the world ahead, and we look forward to updating everyone in future sessions like this. Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - Equity Analyst Looking forward to it as well. Thanks so much. Robert Marc Bakish - ViacomCBS Inc. - President, CEO & Director Thanks."
"Paramount";"Event Transcript";"REFINITIV STREETEVENTS EDITED TRANSCRIPT PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) EVENT DATE/TIME: MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM GMT REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Robert Marc Bakish Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Benjamin Daniel Swinburne Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD PRESENTATION Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD All right. Were going to get started. Good afternoon, everybody. Im Ben Swinburne, Morgan Stanleys media analyst. And a quick disclosure statement, please note that important disclosures, including my personal holdings disclosures and Morgan Stanley disclosures, all appear as a handout available in the registration area and on the Morgan Stanley public website. And with that out of the way, Im excited to welcome, as our keynote conversation, Bob Bakish, President and CEO of Paramount Global. Prior to the recombination of Viacom and CBS, Bob was the President and CEO of Viacom, going back to December 2016. Bob, thanks for being here. Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Hey. Always a pleasure, Ben. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Good to see you. And... Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Particularly in the real world. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD IRL. Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director IRL, in real life. So anyway... QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Absolutely. Its nice to be back in person. Maybe before we talk about a lot of the news you guys provided to us back on your earnings call, I wanted to ask you, its been about 2 years since the ViacomCBS merger. When you look back at sort of the strategic rationale of that deal, the synergies you guys laid out, how would you reflect on what is still a pretty new company and its position in the marketplace? 2 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes. There were questions when we put the 2 companies together, but there was never a question on my part that it was a fundamentally powerful combination. And I think, if anything, weve proven that more quickly and more significantly than even I expected. You start with -- we have an aligned senior management team that really reflects the best in the industry. Im thrilled with our team. You look at what were doing from a content perspective. And we talked some about this in our investor event a couple of weeks ago, but we have leadership, very broadly. We have the top 4 shows on television, 3 of those are CBS, one of them is Paramount Network. We just had 2 #1 films at the box office this quarter. Now were pointing our content engine to streaming and having notable originals there. So content is really in very good shape, and Im thrilled with whats coming. You look at our company commercially, on the distribution side, where we have a singular organization distributing our content. We continue to get deals done. And in fact, we have broadened the relationship, most recently really adding apps into linear networks and advanced advertising, et cetera. And on the ad sales side, we are a kind of key solutions provider in the U.S. and really getting value from having a linear portfolio of linear inventory, combined with a market-leading streaming product. And thats working very well in the marketplace. And then finally, streaming, where we have a differentiated playbook. We are the market leader in FAST with Pluto. That continues to be a rocket ship. And quite frankly, we couldnt have done ParamountPlus without the combination. And thats off to an exceptionally strong year 1. So I think were really liking what were seeing. I think the market is starting to see the performance. Maybe its not reflected in our equity, but theres no question theres power in the combination. And by the way, its not a combination anymore, it is a single company. And thats part of why we renamed it Paramount Global at our event as well. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD So lets talk about the investor event you had a couple of weeks ago. There was a lot of new information, updated outlook, new name for the company. Maybe you could tell everybody what you think the main takeaways were from what you provided in the market a couple of weeks ago. Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes, sure. I mean I think there were a couple. One is really the indisputable momentum the company has, and streaming was central to this presentation. And you look at our fourth quarter in 21 in streaming, on the free side, with Pluto, we added 10 million MAUs, to bring the total MAUs globally to 64-and-change million. That is significant growth, and it shows that the real -- the validity of a free ad-supported service in the current marketplace. And by the way, it crossed $1 billion in revenue for year 2021. Thats 5x what it was 2 years ago. And then likewise, on the pay side, with ParamountPlus, we added 9.4 million subscribers to our pay portfolio. We were the fastest-growing major streaming service in the quarter. We have the fastest-growing brand in the country, not just in streaming, but of any brand. For kicks, #2 is Moderna, by the way. And so point one of our investor event was really to showcase our momentum. Point two is we evolved our disclosure, introducing new segments, really to respond to the inquiries we were getting from all of you. So we now have a TV Media segment, which reflects our linear television businesses. And you can really see the significant size and stability of that. We have a D2C segment, where you can see, all the way through the P&L, what that combination of our free and pay products look like. And then we, of course, have a Filmed Entertainment segment, reflective of Paramount and the like. So the second element was that what I would call enhanced disclosure, which we thought it was important for people to fully understand our story. Third element was, given the momentum, we have higher aspirations. When we launched ParamountPlus and we did an investor event a year ago, we talked about 65 million to 75 million paid subs by 2024. The truth is, well, based on what we see, well be through 75 million by the end of 2022. 3 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) So we raised our paid subscriber guidance to 100 million subs. And in case anyone is worried about low-calorie, low-revenue subscribers, we also increased our revenue forecast in streaming for 2024 from $6 billion, to $9 billion. So we see material financial performance as we grow this business more quickly than we thought a year ago. And then lastly, we talked about our differentiated playbook and how we are going about this differently. And so those were the major takeaways. We didnt necessarily get the market reaction we would have hoped for. But nonetheless, it is a powerful story, and were feeling very good about it. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD So Bob, you mentioned the differentiated playbook, and weve had NBC and Disney at the conference talking about their outlook, AMC Networks. What is it about how Paramount goes to market with the assets that you have that you think is differentiated in driving the business? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Sure. I would really point to 4 key dimensions of our differentiation. The first is we have a differentiated content strategy. We believe in a broad strategy. When we launched ParamountPlus, we talked about news, sports and a mountain of entertainment. We think that breadth is advantageous as we can serve the whole household, the whole country and really get us access to a larger consumer base. And by the way, its not that different people only want to watch sports versus kids or whatever, but that breadth of content also has people consuming multiple lanes, as we call it. So breadth of content is our first source of differentiation. The second is really we have a broader streaming business model. We were a little countertrend certainly when we embraced free ad-supported streaming. But we are really both the market leader in FAST, and we have a pay product. And so that combination means that we have a larger revenue pool we can go after, that combines advertising and streaming. We think thats a real source of advantage for our company. And again, we believe in the stand-alone products in FAST and in ParamountPlus, and we believe in -- the combination has additional synergies. The third source of advantage that our company has, and this one too is not necessarily always in vogue, but were not just a streaming player, we also have a leading portfolio of linear networks on a global basis. Were the largest broadcaster in the world. And of course, we have a major Hollywood studio that continues to release films theatrically, including having 2 #1s this quarter. We think thats a real advantage as we go and attack the streaming opportunity. And then the last source of advantage is theres a lot of companies out there that are U.S. companies that go licensed product internationally. We have long been a global operating company. We have teams on the ground in 30 markets. We have 12 studios creating content locally around the world. And we have really breadth of partnerships that we can bring to bear to accelerate our streaming strategy and provide new forms of value, and you see that in some of the distribution deals weve announced recently, with the likes of Sky and CANAL+. So you put those 4 sources of advantages together, and we see faster growth. But importantly, we also see a business that has more attractive margin characteristics over time, benefiting from the combination of those advantages. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD And Bob, how are you and the team at Paramount thinking about balancing where you put content? You talked about linear being important. Obviously, thats important for a variety of reasons, including the cash flows that it generates, but youre clearly taking the company further and further into streaming. So as you continue to build your content portfolio over time, whats the strategy internally in terms of where stuff gets distributed? 4 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes. So as you point out, we have the #1 network in the U.S. in CBS, and we have the leading kids network in Nickelodeon and all. And we continue to fuel those networks and those -- and serve those audiences with original content. And so we certainly think about that in the context of maintaining the relevancy and financial performance of that -- of those businesses. At the same time, we are obviously investing in streaming. Thats the growth opportunity in the business, no question about it. And you see us pointing our libraries and original production, particularly with respect to franchises increasingly in that direction. And that, in turn, is growing our total pie. When we look at the linear side of the business, theres no question that we know thats a mature business and that were managing it for profitability, and therefore, we think very carefully about content spend and we look for opportunities to gain efficiencies there. Theres a variety of ways we do that. We do that with mix of content. You can think scripted versus reality versus other forms, sports, of content and looking to optimize that mix. CBS, as an example, is leaning more in a reality direction over time. That has some economic advantages. We also are looking at opportunities to source product outside the -- not source, but create product using our international studios. We talked about a reality format that were creating for all of our broadcasters, but were creating it in Argentina. So theres a U.S. version for CBS, a U.K. version for Channel 5, Australian version for Network Ten, Argentinian version for Telefe. But were creating all those in Argentina, and then were actually going to do what were calling, War of the Worlds, exclusively for ParamountPlus, where the winners of each of those country-specific formats compete. The financial part of that is were doing 5 shows for the price of 3. So again, economic advantage there. Were also looking at how we run networks, and weve done some consolidation of organizations over time. Theres probably more opportunity there. So again, in this mature business, were focused on maintaining and in our case, growing audience share, but doing it on an economically responsible way as we simultaneously invest in streaming. And youre going to see great originals continue to come to ParamountPlus as this year goes on and as years unfold in the future. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD And Bob, as part of this sort of financial algorithm, I think you guys expect to be able to keep your linear EBITDA roughly flattish over time, even as you move more and more programming over to streaming. Can you talk about your confidence there? Thats certainly an area the markets debating. Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes. Well, I would say a couple of things there. One is, if we didnt believe it would be a stable segment with respect to earnings, we probably wouldnt have broken it out as a segment for all of you. So that says something about our confidence in the going-forward performance. As I said, on the economic side, it is certainly about growing share and carefully managing expense levels and looking for opportunities to do things more efficiently, which, by the way, when we put Viacom and CBS together, one of the other things we did which I didnt mention, is we actually beat our synergy cost savings targets that we gave The Street. And by the way, we also sold a bunch of noncore assets. But -- so part of the reason we see stability is that we see strong share performance and we are able to manage investment levels, and we feel good about our going-forward ability to do that. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Okay. So lets turn to ParamountPlus and your updated outlook. As you mentioned, you raised your guidance from 65 million to 75 million, which I think you gave basically just over a year ago, to over 100 million. What have you learned? What have you seen in the business over the last 12 months thats given you so much confidence and now raised your ambition so significantly? 5 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Well, I mean, I would sum it under the umbrella of momentum. I mean when we launched ParamountPlus, the general narrative I heard was you guys are too late and you dont really have the wherewithal to do something interesting here. By the time we got to a couple of weeks ago, the question that we would be a scale player is now off the table. Everyone agrees were going to be a scale player. And the reason is, is our proposition is working. I would start with the thesis of being broad continues to prove itself out, combining sports like the NFL with movies from Paramount, whether they are great library movies or more importantly, fresh movies, particularly in fast-follow from a pay 1 basis, where, for example, 2 of our films that were #1 in the box office this quarter are both going to be on ParamountPlus in this month. In fact, one of them, Scream, went up today, I think. Were also seeing an ability to continue to leverage our CBS fleet and do innovative things with it. So one show -- 2 shows that we took, that were CBS shows, are now exclusively ParamountPlus shows. And both of them have been clearly additive to subscriber acquisition and engagement on ParamountPlus. Those 2 shows are Evil and SEAL Team. Our kids product, I had a thesis that we were going to be able to replicate our legacy leadership in kids in streaming, and thats exactly what is happening. Nickelodeon is a force on ParamountPlus. We have seen, in the first year, roughly half of our subscribers consume at least one piece of kids content. The kids content is working in the film format, in the episodic format. And the library is tremendously valuable. And so that lane continues to prove itself out. And again, it proves itself out not only in kids, but when we look at our data, we see that their parents are doing things like watching scripted originals, most recently exemplified by 1883, which is a spin-off from Yellowstone that weve created -- or that Taylor Sheridan created for us. So what were really seeing is our thesis playing out on the content side, combined with our distribution strategy. And we believe -- the company has long believed in ubiquitous distribution as a source. We never said it this way, but to the largest TAM in streaming, thats how people talk about it and it clearly works. So its that combination of, obviously, D2C distribution, channel store distribution, some things we call hard bundles, which is innovation in the distribution space. So as we saw all that going on, we had -- we -- the confidence to say were going to be bigger, particularly given what we saw through the fourth quarter of 21, what were seeing in this quarter, What we see line of sight to by the end of this year, where, again, we will surpass the high end of our range. And frankly, were tremendously excited about it. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD So I wanted to ask you about your distribution partnerships. We had Netflix a couple of hours ago, and theyve had a long-term relationship with T-Mobile. I think you guys are now in business with them in a serious way in the U.S. Any update on either how thats going? And maybe you could talk a little about what youre doing in Europe with Sky? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Sure. So again, we are pursuing a multifaceted distribution model, which includes working with key partners. One of the legacy, in a good way, our company has, is an ability to work with partners in various shapes and forms. To your question on T-Mobile, that partnership launched in the fourth quarter of 21. We did not have significant expectations for subscribers in the quarter because it launched more as like a soft launch without marketing, without billing integration. We were quite pleased with what we saw in the fourth quarter from T-Mo, although it was not a material source of our subs. As we get to the end of this quarter, the marketing program kicks in. And then shortly thereafter, well have integrated billing. Right now, you have to put a credit card in if youre a T-Mobile subscriber. So we think the partnership is off to a good start, didnt contribute meaningfully in the fourth quarter nor did we expect it to. But looking forward to it really be a powerful engine for ParamountPlus in the United States as the year goes forward. 6 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) You mentioned Sky. Thats a different deal. Sky -- and I ran our international business for a decade. So I know the Sky company very well. They are a tremendously -- theyre really the gold standard distributor outside the United States. Their cornerstones are U.K., Germany and Italy. So we did a deal with Sky, whereby -- and we call this now our hard bundle strategy, whereby they will launch ParamountPlus to a tier of their subscribers, in this case, the Sky Cinema tier. They dont disclose Sky Cinema subscribers, but I can tell you its in the millions and millions and millions. And in the case of the U.K., they will launch that in June. And we are very excited about this model because it provides us a light switch to a very large number of incremental subscribers at 0 subscriber acquisition cost and because its in the tier at very low churn, particularly relative to what you think of as D2C churn. So we love this model. And importantly, were both getting data and we have rights to pursue D2C and other forms of distribution outside of it. So well roll that in the U.K. in June and then later in the year in Germany and Italy. We followed that up, by the way, with an announcement at our Investor Day that we did a, I would say, a similar deal with CANAL in France. They are the leader in France. And I think whats important about these deals is 2 things. One is the fundamental characteristics of them on an LTV basis because you get subscribers with very low churn and 0 subscriber acquisition costs. We think thats a beautiful model, particularly when paired with going after the whole universe through D2C and channel stores, which, again, we can do. And the second thing I would say is it is really a demonstrable proof point of the advantage that we have of having a traditional business and having these partnerships. And I am 100% certain that just like we saw FAST early, and we were the first people to get into that business by acquiring Pluto, first people in terms of a major media company, and then subsequent to that, people have followed us there. We still have the market leader, and in fact, we increased our leadership position in the fourth quarter. People will follow us into hard bundles because its innovation, but it makes sense, and people are starting to see that. So you should expect more of that to come. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD So Bob, just to think about the shape of the year, that it sounds like T-Mobile should be a contributor, maybe more to Q2 and beyond. Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD And then in Europe, obviously, rolling through the summer. And are your -- when we think about your overall company relationship with partners like Sky and CANAL+, are you giving anything up when you shift the model a bit from linear to streaming? Or is this part of a broader relationship where the overall economics to your company will grow? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Ben, its a great question. And theres a couple of points. The bottom line is we are about partnerships and relationships, and both Sky and CANAL were part of a comprehensive renewal whereby 2 important things happened. One is the size of the revenue relationship increased. And two is, if you look at the ARPU of streaming versus the pay networks, the ARPU of streaming is higher. Now it is true that theres some remixing in there, but this is working with companies like these partners, who are also transforming their business for the future. So again, we think its a great model. Its additive on a total revenue basis. And its accretive on an ARPU basis. 7 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Thats helpful, Bob. So you talked a lot -- so weve been talking about your ambitions on the top line, but youve also increased your investment plans. Maybe you could talk a little bit about how you arrive at your overall content spending expectations. And whats a realistic time line to get to breakeven or -- and ultimately, the mid- to high-20s margins that you laid out for the stream? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes. So look, weve been greenlighting shows and films for decades. And in that vein, we have frameworks of -- and setting expectations for property. As we invest in streaming, we have extended that model into that universe. And so we look at every investment decision we make. We obviously have much better data on the streaming side than we ever had on the legacy side. We know exactly how much content is consumed. We can tell if a subscriber -- we attribute a subscriber to it as a subscriber acquisition. We know if they watch something else, what do they watch before it, what do they watch after it. Fun fact, 50% of 1883 subscribers of -- people that came in to watch 1883 have watched 5 other shows. And that is very, very good news from a churn management perspective. But -- so we look at our investment levels very carefully. As we saw the success of ParamountPlus through 21, we got comfortable increasing our investment levels because we were seeing early returns. But I would also say we didnt necessarily lean in exactly the same way as in the beginning of the year. And I think its worth talking about the film business in this regard. Some of our competitors embraced a strategy where they took their whole slate day-and-date. We looked at that, and I looked at that and I said, I dont think that makes sense, I dont see the ROI on that. Instead, we chose to do a 45-day fast-follow strategy. What that means is a film is released in the theaters, and then 45 days after that, it shows up on ParamountPlus. The old -- thats -- were doing this in whats known as the pay 1 window. The old pay 1 window definition was 90 days. But we looked at it and we said, if you look at the degradation curves on theatrical revenue, the reality is theres not much of a theatrical business after 45 days, with very few exceptions on maybe some huge titles, which, again, you could run a little longer if you wanted to. But if you look at the ROI of being able to essentially get that theatrical revenue and provide that consumer option, quite frankly, and the experience, but get it and still have the product to be fresh enough and be viewed as fresh and importantly, benefit from all the theatrical marketing and bring it to streaming, thats a much better ROI equation. And thats -- we did it for the first time with A Quiet Place II last year, and we saw it in spades. We did do a little day-and-date with theatrical, but we only did it for kids and family titles, which we thought, in the COVID, given how families and our research looked at, we thought was a good option to provide. And by the way, it was a home run for PAW Patrol, it was a home run for Clifford. Both of which actually outperformed their green lights and theatrical, we think, because of the combination of marketing and excitement. But a long-winded way of saying, were looking at this very carefully, were looking at ROI, were doing mix. One of the things I said early in the year was I thought we would have a movie a week on ParamountPlus by the time we got to 22, mid-22. We wont. Well have probably one every other week. We think thats a better investment strategy, and we mix some of that money over to the series side. So a lot of thought and analysis going into this literally on a daily basis. But were feeling very good about what weve seen to date, and that, in turn, has obviously shaped our expectations and our decisions for the future. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD And Bob, is there any way you can help us think about the time line to streaming breakeven or even getting to the kind of margin... 8 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes. Sorry, I forgot that part. So a couple of things on that. One is, I would say, we raised our aspirations not only in subscribers, but also in revenue, so $6 billion to $9 billion. Yes, we are spending more. We also said, in our investor event, that were spending more in 22 in streaming, and then peak losses will be in 23. And then after that, youll see those begin to moderate. That has a lot to do with the combination of getting the content scale and investment, combined with where we are from a revenue perspective. Were not necessarily at target margins by then. But we -- our math and models say that as that tracks out, we will move in that direction. So we feel, again, based on everything weve seen to date, we feel good about that. And I want to go back to those 4 sources of advantage. We are not a pure-play streamer. And when you look -- forget about growth for a second, but when you look at margins, thats a very good thing because we are able to leverage content costs across platforms. Take our library as an example. It is irreplaceable and it is fundamental to driving engagement on streaming. A pure-play streamer doesnt have a library like that, and its a tremendous advantage, including with respect to margins because we dont burden our streaming services with incremental cost for a library thats already paid for. Likewise, using our linear networks has launched platforms, including what we did with 1883 and Mayor of Kingstown and SEAL Team and Evil, tremendous advantage. Youre going to see Halo, which is piece of IP related to the Microsoft game drop later this month. If you watched the AFC Championship Game, which we aired, you would have seen Halo integration in it. You not only cant buy that, it actually didnt cost us much incrementally, another source of economic advantage which helps our margins. And so anyway, so we feel good about that trajectory. And obviously, were going to have to prove that to all of you over time. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD And Bob, you mentioned a couple of times that you raised your revenue outlook. These arent empty calories. You, I think, inherently raised your outlook for ARPU. So what have you learned so far in the first kind of 12 months-plus of ParamountPlus, both on the subscription and the advertising side, that gives you confidence that you can continue to drive ARPU and actually drive it faster than maybe you had expected a year-plus ago? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes, 100%. I mean its just math. The only way we could have gotten to that is not just subscribers, its ARPU growth as well. For us, there is both ARPU growth on the subscription side and on the advertising side. On the subscription side, we are far from price leader. If you look at ParamountPlus in the United States, you have a price point of $9.99 for the premium version or $4.99 for the with ads version. The price umbrella is well above that. Obviously, Netflix recently raised pricing to $19.99 in the United States. So we think theres plenty of room to move price over time, and that will help ARPU. And thats true not only in the U.S., thats true globally. Were very much in the value-priced, intentionally, level all around the U.S., or internationally, where were operating, we tend to stay there. But again, in our LRP, we clearly will raise price over time, even though we will still stay attractively priced for the consumer. On the ad sales side, again, ad sales, we view as tremendously valuable and really both as an ability to have a lower-priced product that can appeal to certain consumers that wouldnt necessarily buy a higher-priced product and is fundamentally a way to access revenue from our advertising clients. That will grow through a combination of engagement, i.e., people spend more time. Theres more effectively units to sell there. And price, and the price has 2 dimensions to it, too. Its just pure price increases, where, again, were not at the high end of the CPM game. And its applying data, which is another form, and ad tech, if you will, which is essentially another form of pricing and yield management thats not just a flat price increase. So we think theres clear room to run on ARPU driven both by ad pricing and subscription pricing. 9 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD And Bob, I wanted to ask you, there was news on Disney+ over the last few days. We talked about it with Christine McCarthy yesterday, adding an ad-supported element to that. What does that mean, if anything, for ParamountPlus? How do you view that announcement? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director I think its validation of the strategy. The stuff -- I didnt talk to the folks at Disney, but I read what was written. And they basically said the same thing we say, which is you can serve consumers that you wouldnt otherwise serve because you can have a lower price point and you can monetize the ad revenue. Theyre 100% right. And Im not surprised they did that at all. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Great. Lets shift to Pluto, which youve mentioned a couple of times, a nice acquisition for the company for sure. I think revenue nearly doubled last year, and youre looking for 100 million, 120 million users by 2024. What makes this different? I think investors are trying to figure out, among all these free ad-supported streaming services, what differentiates them in the market with consumers and with advertisers. So talk about Pluto, if you can. Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director So all right, Im biased, but Pluto is an unbelievable asset. When we acquired it, we closed in early 19, we acquired it off 2018 numbers. At the end of 2018, it had 12 million monthly active users and had $70 million in revenue. Fast-forward to the end of 2021, it had 64-and-change million monthly active users and over $1 billion in full year revenue. In fact, in the last 2 years, weve 5xd the revenue. So it is a monetization rocket ship. Why? Because more consumers are using it every day. It is a high-quality product. It is stocked. And we started in the U.S., but obviously are now rolling it around the world. But in the U.S., the content lineup now approaches 200,000 hours of content, fortified, of course, by Viacom legacy and CBS legacy content, but we actually have about 250 content suppliers to the platform. And for them, it has this flywheel effect as, as it grows, we just keep writing them larger rev share checks and they love it. I would also point out that one of the things about Pluto, and this is actually the reason we picked Pluto over all the others when we did the M&A work, is it presents content in a lean-back linear way. And yes, you can get content on-demand as well. But still, overwhelmingly, the consumption is on the linear side of it because people love that model, so much so, by the way, that weve now introduced linear services inside of ParamountPlus. We just did that. And were seeing -- although its a single-digit percentage of people that are using it inside of ParamountPlus to date, theres a double-digit percentage of engagement increase for all those people. So the Paramount -- the Pluto model fundamentally works for the consumer because its free, people like free, and it has a high-quality offering. Its broad, back to our thesis. It has all kinds of content on it, movies, series of all different genres, news. The sports stuff is mostly library, although we have some current sports as well. And that, in turn, is driving tremendous revenue growth and really continuing to set an incredible global expansion opportunity. So we are thrilled with Pluto. Again, it crossed $1 billion in 2021. Its got a lot of runway ahead of it because on the monetization side, what you need to understand is its got a 5-part multiplicative model. What I mean by that, 2 parts consumer, how many MAUs do you have, and again, we added 10 million MAUs in the fourth quarter. And then how much time are they spending, engagement, that combination is what creates your inventory. And thats growing very quickly. Then you got the monetization side. That is a combination of sellout, how much of that inventory you created are you actually selling, and then price, both in the form of pure CPM and again, getting into data and other ad tech as another pricing lever. 10 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) When you look across those 5, MAUs continue to grow. Realistically, the MAU growth is going to be more outside the United States, significantly more than inside the United States at this point, although a material chunk of that 10 million were U.S. MAUs in the fourth quarter in terms of growth. Engagement continues to grow double-digits as people get more habitual with Pluto and they find all its richness. So that combination of supply, if you will, will continue to grow. On the sellout perspective, when we bought Pluto, it was under 50% sold. It is now more than that, but it is far from sold out because weve been creating so much inventory that we havent had to push sellout super hard. And now, were actually doing some stuff on the ad insertion side to make it more dynamic, including how shows end. And so that will continue -- that gives us another kind of lever there. And on price, we are -- believe it or not, we are value-priced in connected TV. We are far from the price leader. We like that because it gives us a good opportunity to take share now, and we are by far the largest FAST player today in the ad business, but also give us an opportunity to move price up over the future. So were thrilled with Pluto. We -- people are starting to understand that it is an incredibly powerful asset and by the way, a great promotional platform to drive subs to ParamountPlus, and its got an exciting runway ahead of it. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD And Bob, is Pluto going to be -- going to do anything different with the upfront coming up here in the next few months in terms of bringing Pluto into the pitch to advertisers? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director 100%. So one of the things I said up-top is on the commercial side, we have a single ad sales team in the United States. That team is very much a convergent team. So one of the advantages we have is this combined portfolio of linear inventory, which is extremely precious given whats going on in the ecosystem, and therefore, you have a continued ability to price that aggressively, aggressively as in high. And then we have the biggest FAST service. So when you put those together, you have an ability to really provide an even better solution to an advertiser, give them more reach. But importantly, we now have a single ad service solution across all our digital inventory, and it ties into our television product. And what that gives us an ability to do is manage frequency. One of the biggest problems an advertiser has when they go buy individual digital platforms is they get too much frequency, and they dont like that because thats considered waste. But by running an integrated offering at scale, the #1 television network plus the #1 FAST service, we can really manage reach and frequency then in a compelling way. So we will, for sure, be doing that in the market. But it wouldnt matter if we didnt have a killer content lineup, which we will also be showcasing in our upcoming upfront. And by the way, just like were all here together again, were going to do our upfront presentation in person in Carnegie Hall during upfront week, not that the virtual one didnt work and actually increased the reach of the presentation, it did, but it will be good to be back in person with folks again. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Absolutely. And just quickly, Bob, you mentioned Pluto as potentially a channel for driving subscription growth. Is that something that youre seeing yet? Or is that something you guys think you can start leveraging over the course of this year? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director So today, Pluto is, for sure, a promotional platform for both ParamountPlus and Showtime OTT. That includes the fact that we have a ParamountPlus Picks channel on Pluto, where we put the first episode of our exclusive series. So maybe the first episode of 1883, as an example, not maybe we 11 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) did that, Star Trek: Picard, whatever. And we do get some subscriber acquisition there. We do the same thing for Showtime, with things like Yellowjackets or upcoming First Ladies or Super Pumped. So it is a good promotional platform, but at the moment, its mostly a promotional platform. However, one of the elements of our strategy is we are going to be doing more integration over time. We are not going to integrate the brands because I think that will be a fundamental mistake. For Pluto, we shout to the worlds consumers that its the best free offering. I dont want to turn around and tell someone, all of a sudden, they have to pay for it. So we believe that distinctiveness of brand, ParamountPlus versus Pluto, is the right way to go. However, that -- what youre going to see this summer inside of ParamountPlus in the United States is essentially the option of adding Showtime in, not as a separate app, but as another brand inside of ParamountPlus. We think thats interesting for consumers that want more content. It will be pretty attractively priced, and that will set the stage for other integration, including with things like BET. At the same time, we are going to have strategies over time, which bring, in the background, Pluto and our pay services closer together. In the foreground, the consumer is still going to see Pluto, but we believe theres opportunities to create value through the combination of these services, and we will be doing that again over time. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD And Bob, you mentioned Showtime as I wanted to turn to that next, in the market for scripted has been super competitive for a long time. Thats not slowing down. How has the business been performing? I know youve had some really strong shows of late. And whats the role Showtime plays, particularly internationally, as you look to expand the whole company overseas? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes. So Showtime had a great year in 2021. That was fundamentally a combination of the fact that it has a distinct brand positioning in the market. Its kind of more coastal, edgy versus, say, a ParamountPlus. But at the end of the day, it had great shows. And its great returning shows, Billions as an sample, and great new shows, Yellowjackets as an example. So it had a very strong 2021, nice over-the-top subscriber growth in streaming and really, as I look forward into 22, a great content lineup, which should continue that momentum. So we like that. Thats a U.S. story outside the United States. Showtime doesnt have broad brand awareness. We dont believe it makes sense to invest in that. Instead, what were doing is taking all that content and putting it into ParamountPlus. In the fourth quarter of 21, what we saw is shows like Yellowjackets and Dexter: New Blood, which, by the way, was the biggest premium show in the United States in 2021, were very effective subscriber acquisition vehicles for ParamountPlus and also additive to engagement. So we really have a duality of Showtime strategy, which I think is the highest and best use of the asset, taking advantage of brand positioning and strength to continue to build it as a branded offering in the U.S. and just taking that compelling content library and not worrying about brand and just focusing on a single brand, which is ParamountPlus outside the United States. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD And Bob, lets talk a little bit about the film studio and the movie business. How important are movies to your streaming plans? Do consumers value movies and are they consuming films on the service in a serious way? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Look, people love movies in general. They have long liked them -- loved them on premium television, Showtime or for that matter, HBO, and they definitely love them on streaming. One of the real advantages this company has, this company that we now call Paramount, is the Paramount 12 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) Pictures studio. That has an incredible library thats 110 years old, multiple Academy Award-winning films, et cetera, combined with ongoing production. And what we see is that -- fresh films, if you will, and then weve done some day-and-date, things like PAW Patrol, 45-day fast-follow, which, again, I think is the best model, things like A Quiet Place Part II; today, Scream; later in the month, Jackass. Those bring people in, no question about it. But people consume the library. And you look at where now -- I was, 2 weeks ago, in L.A. for the 50th anniversary of The Godfather release. We are -- we have all The Godfather films on ParamountPlus. And in April, were launching a limited series called The Offer, which is the back story of The Godfather. Again, you couldnt do that if you didnt own Paramount arguably, but it shows why movies are integral to our streaming strategy. And by the way, Paramount is the name on the door of the streaming product. And from what weve seen, both new movies and library have been tremendously valuable. And I expect they will continue to be, so much so that ParamountPlus will be the home for all our pay 1 movies. At the expiration of the EPIX deal right now, we get them, but we get them a little bit later. Well have total control of it. And we think thats pretty important. And it raises another point that I probably should have made earlier. I know people are worried about investment levels. I understand that. Again, were seeing the ROI. We feel good about it based on the performance to date. But the other thing I would tell you is what are we investing in, content, new series, which we have a good track record on, and repatriating highly valuable product thats out there, to get it back under our control, South Park, Paramount pay 1, et cetera. What that does, we believe, is fuel our organic streaming strategy, drive subscriber growth, revenue growth, ultimately, TV Media-like margins. But it also increases optionality because when I look at a company to buy, and weve done a bunch of smaller deals, particularly in Latin America, and you can -- rest assured, we look at all the deals. The single most important thing is if you buy the company, can you use the content. And the answer typically is no, not for a while. Our investment strategy is increasing optionality because were gaining more and more control over high-quality content. Again, were deploying that against our O&O organic strategy, but it actually gives us more optionality, and thats sort of a fact that was missed in some of the post-investor call narrative. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Now thats helpful. And actually, I was going to ask you because one of the ways you historically have monetized that IP is through licensing, which is I think about a $6 billion business last year. So do we think about that as an offset maybe to bring some of the content back on platform in-house, that, that is a revenue stream that either will be flat or maybe decline over time? How should we think about that? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes. So I would say a couple of things. First of all, what we call licensing is actually a whole bunch of businesses. So it includes things like TV syndication in the United States, which is not typically what people think of. It includes our consumer products business, which, again, is a different business, things like PAW Patrol plushes and towels or whatever, includes our recreation business, which is our licensing of IP into theme parks. And yes, it includes licensing content to other people, including international broadcasters, which, again, we dont see as cannibalistic. And then the last category is, yes, we have licensed product to streamers. So on that, I would make a couple of points. One is we have contracts for originals that are life of series that were going to continue to fulfill, things like Jack Ryan on Amazon. And we make a little money on it, fine. But on a going-forward basis, for our -- particularly for our franchises, were pointing those at our in-house assets. So you shouldnt expect to see lots of deals like that in the future. But at the same time, theres value to licensing content. When we tend to license now, well license nonexclusive couple seasons, early seasons. And we do that because it doesnt really affect our ability to acquire subscribers with those series with the current season. And in fact, its a good franchise builder and promotional vehicle. So were not 13 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) going to exit the content licensing business. Again, theres parts of it that have nothing to do with streaming. And the other part is there is strategic value to building franchises and monetization that we can have. The last thing I would say, and this was a key bridge we crossed about a year ago, is -- and it goes to your question of, is there going to be a decline here. When we went from exclusive to nonexclusive, it would be reasonable to expect you would take a big haircut in price or revenue. The fact of the matter is we didnt, and we didnt because theres such strong demand, particularly for library product because again, think about if you had to program a streaming service with just original production. Theres a big guy thats kind of doing that, and its very, very, very expensive. Its not economic. You need a library. So by saying you can no longer license this exclusively, you can have it nonexclusively and were certainly keeping it for ourselves, we actually held price and we didnt take a revenue hit, which is just reflective of demand. So again, we feel good about where we are in content licensing, definitely a strategic evolution of the business, but it is a business that well stay in. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD And then, Bob, I wanted to ask you about sports. Sports is a business that I think the market is still trying to figure out how streaming -- how will sports pivot to streaming, can it be done profitably. You guys have actually been streaming the NFL for many years, going back to the old All Access days. But whats the thought process for you, both in the U.S. and globally, in moving sports over to streaming? And should we expect you guys to be doing more and more of that over time? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director So we think sports is a valuable piece of the streaming equation. To be clear, it is only a piece. Were not interested in going out and trying to create ESPN Plus or anything like that. We like having a component of sports inside of ParamountPlus. For sure, the cornerstone of that is the NFL. That continues to be a powerful subscriber acquisition vehicle and engagement vehicle. Its also a great launchpad for scripted. Its part of the reason why we launched 1883 on Sunday, to again try to get that NFL audience to sample. We also obviously are in the UEFA business, European football. That continues to work for us. We do get some product through -- some additional product through CBS, like the NCAA right now. Thats a nice product that we have, that also, of course, is on CBS linear. So I like sports as part of the strategy. I like where we are in sort of weighting and mix. We are adding some sports outside the United States, to try to get some of the benefit we see inside the United States. So we have like Australian football in Australia, where, by the way, we benefit from having a broadcast network there, too. We just did EPL for part of Latin America. But its only a piece of the strategy because ultimately, what you got to do to get an ROI, is you got to get them to consume other products once they come in for sports. And thats something were very focused on and have had good success to date. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Great. I wanted to ask you about the ad market and advertising in general at the company. As we said, were coming here on the last 5 minutes or so. Could you update us on the broader environment across your footprint? Obviously, the world is getting a little more -- or a lot more volatile in the last few weeks. But anything you could tell us about the advertising environment as you see it today, as you get ready for the upfront? And then maybe spend a minute on the ad -- advanced advertising platform youve built and what that means for the growth outlook for advertising longer-term. 14 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes, sure. I would start by saying we continue to see the ad market as we described it in our investor event. So we see Q1 as comparable to Q4, excluding the Super Bowl. Of course, we had the Super Bowl last Q1. We dont have it this Q1, so we got to adjust for that. The only update I would say to that is that given whats going on in the world, the news business, ad business has softened a bit. Now thats unfortunate. But for us, we dont have a 24-hour news network. Its not a material part of the business. At the same time, and I was with a couple of agency CEOs this weekend, we continue to feel very good about this coming upfront. Our differentiation in having linear plus streaming, which is the streaming stuff we sell under the iQ umbrella, that combines Pluto, ParamountPlus essentials and some other full-motion -- full-episode video. Combined with our essentially branded programming and in-house ad agency for custom events and things like that, were very well-positioned in the market. And the agencies are starting to say they want to do business early vis-a-vis the upfront, which I was Chief Operating Officer for ad sales some years ago, and whenever you heard that, that was code for, they think the market is going to strengthen. So we feel very good about both our ability to lead, including with our advanced ad product and how the market is shaping up from a tone perspective. I guess we have to see where this Ukraine thing ultimately goes. But to date, the market looks like its going to be very strong. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Got it. And just to make sure I understand your news point, thats not a demand issue, thats more brands dont want to be associated with this? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director People dont want to run a news -- a national news covering the war right now. It doesnt really affect local news because thats not what local news is, which is good because weve got a big local news business, but this is really more national. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Understood. Well, listen, we covered a ton over the last 50-plus minutes or so. I wanted to maybe let you end talking about free cash flow. The market clearly is anxious about that. Free cash flow is coming in for a period of time as you guys make all these big investments weve been talking about for the last hour or so. How do you think about driving long-term free cash flow for the company, your balance sheet and really optimizing it all for shareholder value? Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Yes. Well, a couple of things, maybe in reverse order. So our balance sheet is in phenomenal shape. When we did the ViacomCBS deal, one of the things we said is we would divest noncore assets. We moved very quickly on that, and were now sitting on, I think, its $6.3 billion of cash on our balance sheet. By the way, we also did an equity raise, which added another $2.7 billion to our balance sheet. So our balance sheet is in phenomenal shape. We did that because we knew there was a tremendous opportunity for our company to be a leader in streaming and capture a meaningful share of that very large and growing TAM. So we always intended to get that capital and put it to work. And thats exactly what were doing in the short term because it is money that were spending on programming. It ultimately -- even though were taking money off the balance sheet by selling, say, Black Rock and investing it in content, it effectively declines our free cash flow and declines earnings. So be it. But were doing that because, again, we see a very compelling opportunity. And more important, we have evidence that were right and that were able to unlock it. As I said, we are investing more in 2022 than we did in 2021, and there will be some incremental investment in 23. That will be peak investment, and then it will grow -- it will moderate from there. And ultimately, the company will return to growth. So thats how we think about it. Again, I feel 15 REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us 2022 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written consent of Refinitiv. Refinitiv and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies. MARCH 08, 2022 / 9:50PM, PARA.OQ - Paramount Global at Morgan Stanley Technology, Media, and Telecom Conference (Virtual) very good about the trajectory that were on, both with respect to things like the balance sheet and more importantly, or equally importantly, the overall performance of the company. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD Great. Well, Bob, I enjoyed the conversation. We covered a lot. Thank you so much for being here, and please come back again next year. Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Thanks for having me. Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD In real life. Robert Marc Bakish - Paramount Global - President, CEO & Director Definitely in real life."
"Paramount";"Event Transcript";"Corrected Transcript 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com Total Pages : 13 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 15 - Mar - 2022 Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 2 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION Unverified Participant Okay. Thanks, everyone, for coming to our second morning keynote for this morning. Im really pleased to introduce Naveen Chopra, who is the CFO of Paramount. Naveen, welcome. Thanks for coming today. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global Thank you. Thanks for having us. Good to be back doing these things in - person. Its been a while. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION Q Yes. Well jump right into it. At your Investor Day in February you increased your 2024 streaming subscriber and revenue guidance by about 50% to 100 million subs and $9 billion - plus in revenue. What are the primary reasons for your confidence in raising the guidanc e by such a large amount after only setting that original guidance just a year ago? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Yeah, well, it ultimately comes down to the success that we had in 2021 and everythi ng that weve learned from that. I mean if you go back to when we originally published our long - term goals for streaming, we hadnt even launched ParamountPlus yet. And so we had a strategy, we had a thesis, we had a vision, but we didnt have a lot of actual data and experience in the marketplace with the ParamountPlus proposition. So since then weve added a tremendous number of subscribers and weve proven to ourselves that we can scale. We added 26 million subscribers in 2021, I think growing faster than any one thought. The vast majority of those subscribers came through ParamountPlus. We also proved to ourselves that we could leverage the power of our content in unique ways that really drove both subscriber acquisition and engagement. Whether you think about t hat in terms of employing a variety of different strategies for releasing movies across both theatrical and streaming. Whether you think about what we did to leverage some of our big linear shows and turn them into franchises across both linear and streami ng. Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 3 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Whether you think about using our traditional platforms as marketing launch pads for a number of our big streaming titles. All of that, I think was extremely powerful. We also proved that we could scale internationally much faster and efficiently than I think anyone expected, in many cases using a large number of existing commercial distribution deals that weve had in place from the traditional part of our business that we can now extend into streaming. And then on the Pluto side, we proved that Pluto has a long way to go in terms of growth in both engagement and monetization. And we demonstrated that in 2021, business grew 88% year - over - year, broke $1 billion in revenue. So its really the combination of all of those proof points, in conjunction with obviously what we see coming down the pipe in terms of our future content slate, new market launches, new distribution partnerships, that gives us real conviction to say that we can push the pedal down more aggressively and we can build Paramount into a top tier streaming business and importantly that we can do it in a way that creates a long - term economic model that we think is attractive. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q What do you need to do in order to realize the companys vision of transforming into a globally scaled str eaming business? What are the pieces that you still need to put in place, both from a content and a distribution perspective or any other factors that you might want to mention? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Yeah. Well, I think theres an important thing to understand which is that while, yes, we are trying to build a globally scaled streaming business, we are not building just another pure - play SVOD business. And thats a really important distinctio n in terms of understanding both our execution plan, our investment needs and what the long - term financials of the business are likely to be. And because we think about that strategy differently, we are operating with what we think of is a unique playbook . And there are four dimensions to that playbook that again are distinct from what you would do as a pure SVOD business. So that includes number one having a much broader content strategy. So a lot of streaming businesses have been focused on high - end scri pted entertainment. Our view is that youve got to address the entire household, which involves a combination of obviously scripted content, but things like sports, news, movies, kids content, unscripted, and thats really critical in terms of both being a ble to drive engagement, audience growth, et cetera, but also being able to leverage content investments across the variety of different channels. So broad content is a critical part of our strategy. We also have a broader business model when it comes to streaming. So were not just focused on subscription, were employing both free ad supported services, subscription and also hybrid models where we have a tier of ParamountPlus that is lower - priced subscription, but includes advertising that is highly accreti ve to the overall economic equation for streaming. So we like that as a distinct part of our strategy. We also have a broader set of platforms which is to say were not operating our streaming business in a silo, were operating it as part of a broader media business that includes both traditional, linear and theatrical businesses. That gives us tremendous leverage, both in terms of how we invest in content, but also in how we can promote and distribute. And theres tremendous efficiency that we get from that. Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 4 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC And then finally, we are much broader from a geographic perspective as well. A lot of streaming businesses to date have approached global from very much a Greenfield position. Were different. We have boots on the ground in 35 countries. Weve got production capabilities in over a dozen and that means that we can scale globally more quickly and more efficiently. Weve got not just those production capabilities, but weve also got a vast library of content for global audiences. So when we think abou t what do we have to do to continue to build our streaming business and ultimately achieve those long term goals, its about pressing on all four of those dimensions, which, as I said, represent a different playbook that we think helps us grow faster and a lso creates long term economics that we like. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q What does the increase in spending mean for the velocity, the quality and the diversity of content thatll be hitting ParamountPlus over the next three years as you build out this full content slate by 2024 ? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Well, I think youll see us continuing to lean into things that have worked well and that play to the differentiators that I just mentioned. So it, of course, starts with that broad content strategy. Youll continue to see us try to address all audiences through a variety of genres and formats, both here in the United States and globally. But youll also see us doing other things like continuing to embrace our fast - fo llow strategy for movies. We like the concept of a 45 - day window that allows us to continue to capture the value of theatrical audience, but also use movies as drivers of both acquisition and engagement on our streaming platforms. I think youll see us con tinue to lean into franchises and extend those franchises, whether its things like a PAW Patrol or a Sonic or creating an entire universe around Taylor Sheridan shows, which has obviously been very successful for us. Youll see us continue to focus on gl obal, both from a production perspective, but also actually using some of our international production capability to create global titles that we can bring into the US and other markets. You will see us continue to be very smart about how we program and st unt our content and how we release our content. We think thats really critical to being able to move audiences from one title to another to maintain engagement and ultimately lower churn. And weve done some very savvy things there, like figuring out how do you take an NFL audience and how do you get them into that next scripted show thats then going to make them really sticky and cause their churn to decrease significantly. And then, youll also see us continue to leverage our library, and I really can t overstate the importance of that. The library of content is where the majority of time is spent in streaming services. And so, having that vast library, continuing to evolve it, continuing to market it, continuing to make sure that its front and center there for our customers is a great tool for continuing to retain and maximize the LTV of all of our customers. So, its a multi - dimensional strategy and, as I said it, it really plays to all of our strengths as a company. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q You touched on it little bi t there, but I guess maybe to ask it more directly, will the plan over the next few years arm you with enough local content in the major regions worldwide to scale outside the United States? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 5 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Office r, Paramount Global A Absolutely. I think a lot of companies, as I mentioned earlier, have had a bit of an uphill climb when it comes to figuring out how to build that global presence with local content for streaming services whereas for Paramount, I think it is one of our biggest advantages because of the existing presence that we have there from both a production and a library perspective and distribution, marketing, et cetera. A lot of people dont fully recognize the fact that were actually now t he largest producer of Spanish language content in the world. And on top of that, we also have production capabilities in Europe, in Australia, in the Middle East. So in combination with what we do in Latin America and obviously the US, we really do have a global production presence. So youll see us continuing to leverage that more aggressively, again, both new production and library. And its going to be one of the things that certainly fuels ParamountPlus going forward. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q Your most strident critics are of the opinion that Paramounts investments in streaming are a poor use of capital and wont generate positive returns because you dont have the IP, just doesnt measure up. How would you respond to those skeptics, those critics? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executiv e Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Well, the first thing Id do is Id point them to the fact that we added 9.4 million subscribers in Q4. We were the fastest growing major streaming service, fastest growing brand in the US mar ket and all of that success is content driven, first and foremost. Remember, that Paramount is a company that has the number one broadcast network in CBS. Weve got the number one kids network in Nickelodeon. Weve got Showtime, which for years has been a producer of culture defining shows whether thats longtime fan favorites like a Billions or a new show like Yellowjackets or a big series like Halo, which obviously a huge, multigenerational gaming franchise. Thats a show produced by Showtime, will be dis tributed on ParamountPlus. Weve got – weve talked extensively about our major international presence. Weve got MTV Studios, which is the producer of Yellowstone, the biggest show in all of television, and now the foundation of multiple spinoffs that well be launching on ParamountPlus. And then, of course, we got the Paramount Movie studio, which quite frankly, I think has one of the most enviable slates over the next few years of any studio around. Weve obviously got Top Gun: Maverick coming up relatively soon here. And as we look to the rest of this year and next, we have more Mission Impossible movies, well have another Paw Patrol movie, well have another Sonic movie, therell be another Transformers movie. More movies in the Quiet Place franchise. So, if you step back and you put all those pieces together between broadcast, cable, international, studio, I think there are lot of companies out there who would love to have our portfolio of content and importantly, well known IP. And that last part is crit ical because without well - known IP, youre stuck in the mode of having to launch new shows and try to build new audiences every single time. And that can honestly be a pretty expensive endeavor. Whereas our ability to take those existing audiences, at exis ting IP, those franchises extend and build on them across multiple channels, it just yields better ROI. And thats a big part of why we think our strategy is so compelling. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 6 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Q When we look at the other scaled content players out there today, we see a m ix at least domestically of companies with a single streaming service and companies with multiple services. Paramount has three primary services domestically: ParamountPlus, Showtime and Pluto. And internationally, I guess essentially two, Pluto TV and Paramo unt+, and you have the JV with Sky and Viacom18, obviously in those regions. But why is it advantageous for Paramount to have multiple services? How does that product strategy maximize value creation over the long term? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice Presi dent & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Well, its really all about the TAM, and we want to make sure that our strategy addresses the largest possible TAM. I think youve heard us describe in the past, our view that our TAM in streaming is at l east twice as big as the TAM thats been available in sort of the traditional media world. And in order to access that TAM, you have to have both an ad - supported service and subscription because there are obviously consumers of a lot of different types, qu ite a lot, across a lot of different markets with varying propensities to pay and frankly, who value different types of content in different ways. So, if you want to have both free and ad - supported and subscription, we think it is important to keep those t hings separate. Its very confusing for customers to have all of that in one service and not really understand, is this free, is this pay, what content do I get where. We have the ability with Pluto, as our free ad - supported service, to really shout from the rooftops that Pluto is free and all of our marketing around is its free, free, free. And then we have the ability to position ParamountPlus as the destination for high quality content, both scripted for sports, for news, for big events. So we really like that positioning because I think it clarifies the value proposition in customers minds and allows us to address the entirety of that TAM. There are also some other benefits outside of the consumer value proposition that fall more into a commercial domai n, if you will, which is to say there are a lot of things that we can do with partners by having multiple services. Each of our distribution partners has their own strategic objectives, and in some cases we can accomplish more by bundling a free ad - support ed service. In some cases, we can do more with subscription. Some cases its the full portfolio, so wed like having all of those arrows in our quiver, so to speak. And then that portfolio approach also pays dividends in terms of what we can do in leverag ing promotion across them. We can use the free audience to promote subscription as one example. It also gives us the ability to get more leverage out of our content investments by windowing content across a variety of different services. So we think its a very powerful part of our model. That said, thats one of our four big differentiators, that concept of a broader streaming business model. Its been working very well for us to - date, and were going to continue to invest in it. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q How much of Paramou nt+ success would you say is due to sports? And can you be as successful internationally, without live sports? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 7 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Yeah. So if you start in the US, sports has been an important ingredient in our service. Its one of the things we use to distinguish ParamountPlus, and it has proven to be a powerful driver, particularly of acquisition, which then allows us to use other forms of content to turn customers that come in for spor ts into long - term, very sticky customers. And in fact, many of the users that come in for sports like the NFL, UEFA, golf, weve got the NCAA tournament coming up soon obviously, turn into our highest LTV customers, especially when we can get them into tha t second piece of content. So we like that model. It works particularly well because were able to leverage that investment across billions of dollars of revenue in the traditional side of our business and very high revenue growth on the streaming side of the business. When you look internationally, the story is a little bit different. ParamountPlus outside of the US is a broader entertainment offering because Showtime content is incorporated into ParamountPlus, so we can address an even broader audience from an entertainment perspective. And we do think sports has value, but we look at it on a market - by - market basis. So if you look at Australia as an example where a market where we do have sports, were going to be launching EPL Soccer in Mexico and Central Amer ica as part of ParamountPlus. And the ingredients that I think we like to see are, number one, obviously the ability to acquire the rights at reasonable cost, but also the ability to leverage that investment, as I said, across multiple channels like we do he re in the US and that we will be doing in Australia. And a clear ability to differentiate our streaming service using those sports properties. And I think thats part of why were excited about what were doing in Mexico as an example, because we really th ink EPL product there allows us to not only acquire a lot of subscribers, but gives us more flexibility in terms of how we price and package our service to maximize ARPU. So we – as said, we look at each market on a case - by - case basis and in some places sp orts is a great value - add, in other places I think its less critical for us. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q Yeah. Similar to other streaming services including Netflix and Disney+, youre using wholesale distribution relationships with the likes of CANAL+, Sky, T - Mobile and othe rs to scale more quickly. Can you talk about the advantages of this model versus the direct - to - consumer model? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Yeah, well, we are definitely fans of the bundle approach , really as part of what we think of as a ubiquitous distribution strategy, which in the context of streaming incorporates obviously a direct - to - consumer component. It incorporates a channels component where we work closely with folks like Amazon, Roku, A pple, et cetera. And then it incorporates this – what we describe as hard bundle component. And the reason we like the hard bundle component is that while yes, we give up some ARPU, there are significant benefits in terms of acquisition cost, churn, retent ion, et cetera that make the economics compelling. So you take something like the deal that we have with Sky in the UK or more recently CANAL+ in France, those are deals where we can very quickly launch our service to millions of customers. We incur virtually no acquisition costs to do so. The churn on those customers is very low, basically mirrors the churn of whatever service youre bundled with at worst. In many cases churn on a combined basis improves. And we have a partner in the market now who i s helping us promote and drive awareness of both ParamountPlus and our content. So we really like that model and we think economically when you look – combine all of the factors of acquisition cost, retention, et cetera the LTV of customers that we get throu gh a bundled offering isnt necessarily all that Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 8 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC different than what you can achieve on a direct - to - consumer basis. So were big fans of it. I think youll likely see others follow in our footsteps there just because the economic benefits of that model, pa rticularly in combination with other channels are so compelling. And its I think one of the other ways, as I said that were going to use our traditional business as part of this broader platform and extend those relationships that we have there into stre aming. Its worked well so far and were looking forward to doing more of that. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q Okay. Can you talk about the trends youve been seeing in engagement over the past few quarters and how those trends are holding up so far this year? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Exe cutive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Yes. Well, we continue to be very encouraged by what weve seen in terms of engagement. Since we launched ParamountPlus, weve obviously been broadening the content offering on the service, helping to drive more awareness, adding a variety of distribution partners. And I think all of that has resulted in increases in time spent on the service, improvements in daily actives, which then manifests as reductions in churn. So we like that. As I mentioned earlier, its first and foremost content driven. So in terms of what we see coming, we expect continued improvements in engagement. Weve got a bunch of exciting content that weve had, both coming into the beginning of this year and looking furt her out. Obviously, some of our big originals that we launched late last year, whether its Mayor of Kingstown, 1883, those have been very powerful drivers in the early parts of 2022. We have also recently released more movies on ParamountPlus. Well have Jack ass being released in the next few weeks here. We launched Picard in early March I believe. Thats a big, powerful original. Of course, we got Halo coming March 24, thats going to be a big driver for us. Weve got another really exciting original called The Offer, which is the back story of how The Godfather movie got made. Im totally hooked on that series by the way. Its really cool. I was little skeptical until I saw it, and then theyve really done a beautiful job of it. So its all about the content . And were just incredibly excited about both, what weve been able to put on the service to - date and whats coming. So thatll all show up in terms of engagement. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q Maybe shift gears a little bit to advertising. What are you seeing in the ad market today, national scatter, local TV and maybe on the connected TV side as well with Pluto? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Yeah. Well, look, I think from a macro long - term perspective, we really like th e advertising opportunity that we see in front of us which weve obviously carefully designed our strategy to be able to be a fully integrated player across both linear and all of the unique reach capabilities that that provides, as well as being a large s cale player in the digital universe and really harnessing the efficiency that that provides for advertisers. Were looking forward to this years upfront and being able to continue to tell that story on a fully integrated basis. We do that with our EyeQ p roduct as a critical part of that narrative. EyeQ is really the service where we Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 9 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC aggregate advertising inventory across Pluto, ParamountPlus and other platforms where we distribute our content in digital form. And thats been a very powerful story, as I said, particularly in combination with our linear assets. So were looking forward to that and we think long term, weve got exactly the right play there. Shorter term, there are some crosscurrents in the marketplace right now. Weve got some categories like entertainment, like travel that are going very strong and have really come back from COVID. Were seeing a lot of enthusiasm and demand, but there are obviously continued supply chain issues. Theres geopolitical uncertainty. Combination of those things do es create some headwinds, but I like our hand as we think about how to navigate those short term headwinds because as I said weve got tremendous growth on the broader advertising portfolio. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q Okay. Youve talked about maintaining stability in TV media OIBDA. What gives you the confidence that youre going to be able to do that? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Well, I think about it both in terms of sort of the top line and the bottom line. An d so on the top line we have shown that we have the ability to mitigate audience declines with increases in rate. And thats true both in the advertising side of the business, particularly as you see COVID issues, supply chain, Ukraine - related issues ultim ately resolve themselves. As I said, were bullish about that part of the business. We also expect to see some nice tailwind from political in the back half of this year. That dynamic also exists on the affiliate side of our business, where weve been abl e to offset ecosystem declines with retrans, reverse comp and built in rate escalators that we have in all of our distribution deals. And then also from a top line perspective, I think our licensing business is a valuable ingredient. Weve talked in the past a lot about changes in our licensing strategy to retain more of our high value content for our owned and operated platforms. But there are many other parts of our licensing business that I describe as being orthogonal to what were doing in streaming and thats stuff like our consumer products business, its our syndicated television business, its licensing to international linear networks. We even have a business where we distribute content for third - parties and we get paid for that not only of our co ntent. And we think that there is growth opportunity in that part of the business as well which will be helpful to sort of the overall financial profile of the TV media segment. And then from a cost perspective, there are also a number of levers that we a re focused on managing in order to preserve margin. That obviously starts with content. We continue to look at ways to optimize the mix of content, whether thats how much scripted versus unscripted are we producing and running, whether its how much conte nt are we producing internationally versus here in the United States? Or even looking at how to get even more leverage out of our production investments, for example, by using a single production location to create multiple programs, production hubs as we like to call them. So you know those are all things we can do to run the business more efficiently. And then there are other I think opportunities to drive efficiency and how we market, how we streamline the organization. Weve shown in the past that we c an effectively combine networks and drive efficiencies that way. So youll see us doing all of those things in addition to continuing to maintain top line. Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 10 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC So we like the stability of that business. Its going to be very – I think clear and transparent as part of our new segment reporting where we will have the TV media business as an independent segment. And frankly its an interesting combination when you think about the fact that youve got this very high growth streaming business, youve got a TV media business that has both top line scale, lower growth, obviously but very high levels of profitability. And what that means is that on a consolidated basis, you have a business that can deliver mid - to high - single digit top line growth. And once we get thro ugh the peak investment phase on direct - to - consumer, well then also generate earnings growth. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q Okay. At your streaming event you indicated that you believe long - term streaming margins will be similar to your traditional TV margins. How should we thi nk about the time it will take for the business to scale at that margin level? Would you expect it to happen say, in the next 10 years? Hopefully, its not a 50 - year projection? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Its not 50. Look, it obviously doesnt happen overnight. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q Yeah. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A And we havent published a specific timeline yet. But I think if you actually step through some of the key elements of our strategy that I was describing earlier, you can start to understand why we can achieve those types of margins in a reasonable period of time. And again if you kind of go top to bottom of the P&L you can start to make that a little more concrete. Which is to say first and foremost from a revenue perspective, the fact that were tapping both the ad - supported model and subscription thats a whole revenue pool that has not been available to traditional pure play SVOD play ers in the past. You think about the fact that weve got all of this global presence, global content, global capability, thats another thing thats going to allow us to get to a much larger TAM, including our broad content strategy. So we think from a re venue perspective we can grow faster and bigger. And then when you look at it from – on the cost side of the equation, there are very tangible benefits that we have and I again start with content. The fact that we have this huge library of content is a great asset in the financial model. If youre a pure play, kind of upstart streaming business without that library, youve got to spend billions of dollars a year to rent library content. And you have to have it, both because consumers demand it from an en gagement perspective and also because if you rely entirely on producing new originals that gets unaffordable, quite frankly. So the fact that we have this library, its fully amortized. And in fact, we get paid for that library because one of the interest ing things that weve learned over the course of the last year is that we can retain library content for our own service and license it on a non - exclusive basis to third parties without really impacting its performance on our Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 11 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC own services. So its fully am ortized. We get paid by other people to rent it and we can use it to drive engagement on our service. So thats a very powerful part of our equation. Then you go to the fact that we have this broader platform, right, linear, theatrical, streaming. That me ans, number one, we can leverage content investments across multiple platforms, whether you think about a movie or even something like the NFL, which is a huge driver from a streaming perspective, but only works if you have also the revenue from the tradit ional side of the business to help fund the cost of that content. Those platforms also provide a highly efficient marketing platform for our streaming business. You look at what weve done to launch new shows, something like Halo as an example, we were ab le to promote as part of the AFC Championship games on linear. That would have cost millions of dollars to do if you didnt have those platforms. And you start adding that up across multiple shows. Its significant dollars. Its not uncommon if youre crea ting $100 million series or something on streaming, people may spend tens of millions of dollars marketing that show to try to drive awareness. Whereas we dont have to invest those dollars because weve got all those platforms and we can leverage them to build awareness. And then you go to our broader distribution model and the fact – as we said, were really embracing hard bundles, were leveraging these existing commercial partnerships that weve got. That translates to real dollars and cents in terms o f what does it cost to acquire a customer? What does it cost to retain that customer? So you put all those things together and, were not talking about pennies. Were talking about billions of dollars of effectively either cost avoidance or incremental rev enue that we can capture over time that ultimately leads to margins that are similar to our traditional business. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q Right. Okay. Makes sense. Can you talk about the outlook for balance sheet leverage? Will leverage ratio trend down from year end 2021 in 2022 and 2023? Or we have to wait until you return to EBITDA growth in 2024 before we see that leverage ratio start to come down? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Yeah. So I guess just to level set a little bit. We finished last year with net leverage ratio around 2.6 times. That will increase as we start to invest in more aggressively in our D2C business. But I think its important to remember a couple of things. Number one, while leverage will incr ease while we go through that investment phase, we do foresee peak losses in the D2C business in 2023, at which point both earnings and cash flow start to grow. And thats obviously an important driver then in being able to get leverage to return to our lo ng - term target, which weve articulated is about 2.75. The other thing to keep in mind is that while we go through this period of elevated leverage, we have a very strong balance sheet. We finished 2021 with over $6 billion of cash on our balance sheet th at does not include by the way any of the proceeds from the sale of Simon & Schuster. We have $3.5 billion of untapped revolver capacity, so we have a lot of flexibility. And I think weve been very smart about how we will manage that balance sheet as we g o through that process. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript 15 - Mar - 2022 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 12 Copyright  2001 - 2022 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Maybe its just a very specific follow - on to that, and some investors have asked us about the sustainability of the dividend going forward, given the increased EBITDA investment you guided to in 2022 and 2023. Whats your con fidence in being able to de - lever while continuing to pay that dividend and reinvesting into streaming? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Yeah. Well, look, I mean Ive mentioned many times that we really have three financial priorities for the business continuing to pay the dividend is one of them, but it also includes funding organic growth in streaming and de - levering the balance sheet over time. So you should assume that our investment strategy, our growth strategy contemplates all three of those things. And I think in order to understand how we do that, youve got to keep in mind two important things. Number one, as we go through this investment phase and earnings does decline as we invest in th e growth behind D2C, we think the decline in free cash flow is likely to be more modest in large part because of a variety of working capital improvements that weve been able to unlock over the course of the last couple of years. And then the second impo rtant point is that, if we were to be in a situation where free cash flow fell below the dividend level, which by the way is not necessarily the case, but if it were to happen, remember D2C losses peak in in 2023. We got a stable TV media business and so b oth earnings and free cash flow start to grow after that point in time. So whatever youre doing in terms of funding the dividend is really just a short - term situation. And as that weve got ample firepower on the balance sheet to be able to do that if we got into a situation where we werent funding it through operating cash flow. But again thats not necessarily going to be the case. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Q You obviously have discretion on a lot of the investments youre making anyway. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice Presi dent & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global A Indeed. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Unverified Participant Okay. All right. Well great. Were out of time. So why dont we wrap - up there? Thanks, Naveen. Really appreciate it. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Naveen Chopra Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Paramount Global Awesome. Thanks for having us. Good to be here. Paramount Global ( VIAC ) Deutsche Bank Media, Internet & Telecom Conference Corrected Transcript"
"Paramount";"Event Transcript";"Corrected Transcript 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com Total Pages : 16 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC 07 - D ec - 2021 ViacomCBS, Inc. ( V IAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 2 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... OTHER PARTICIPANTS John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Good morning, everybody. Im John Hodulik, the media and telecom analyst here at UBS. Welcome to Day 2 of the UBS Global TMT Conference. Very pleased to announce that our morning keynote speaker today is Bob Bakish, the CEO of ViacomCBS. Bob, thanks for being here. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. Hey, John, thanks for having me. Great to be here. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC So, weve got about 40, 45 minutes for Q&A. Ive got a bunch of questions that Im going to run through. And again, as always, if you have any questions out there in the audien ce, please use the app and send them in and Ill work them into the conversation. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 3 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q So, Bob, obviously an eventful year, a lot has happened in 2021. Can you start out today by talking about the sort of key accomplishments for 2021 as well as the major priorities as we look out to 2022? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A 2021 has been an interesting year for all of us. But as I look at ViacomCBS, Id note a couple of things. One is we really have a content engine thats firing on all cylinders. You see that weve strength at CBS, at Showtime, and our basic cable networks, and in film. In the film side, particularly day - and - date w ith streaming, which I guess brings me to the second thing Id say, which is, weve seen real momentum on the streaming business, thats both ParamountPlus and really Pluto driving pay and free streaming respectively for us. In fact, as I look at the fourth quarter that were in, total streaming revenue for the company will now cross a $5 billion run rate. So, were getting somewhere significant pretty quickly. And were set up well for 2022, both on the content side and with the important new distribution de als kicking in, including T - Mobile on the wireless side in the US and Sky in Europe. And well also be launching a significant joint venture in Europe with Sky Showtime, so 2022 will be a big year for us particularly internationally. And then the third th ing Id say business wise is our core linear business continues to be a highly relevant asset. Youve seen it return to ad growth. Our distribution track record on a combined company basis is really very strong and were seeing benefit from the entire port folio whether thats the broadcast networks, cable networks, premium stations, and of course now apps where weve extended our model into that. And its a super powerful promotional platform. Youve seen us using that at scale recently. And look, were in great shape financially. Our balance sheet is bulletproof. We got a lot of cash on the balance sheet. And that all, you put all that together and I cant wait for 2022. Were going to continue to focus on really two priorities which is driving streaming a nd maximizing the contribution from our legacy business. And against those two objectives, weve got a fantastic pipeline on the content side including, by the way, a killer film slate. So, as we look to theaters reopening at scale whether its Scream or S onic 2 or Top Gun Maverick or Transformers or Mission Impossible, those are all 2022 titles and theyre all really good and theyre all pretty much in the can. I think Sonic still has a little more work to do on it, but were in great shape from a producti on standpoint. And then we got more drivers kicking in for streaming both in the US and internationally. And for all of you out there, well have a significant investor event in early 2022 where well update you on our streaming performance. Well talk ab out content, well talk about international expansion, well talk about an updated set of overall goals, and well be providing all of you enhanced transparency through new segment disclosure, including a D2C P&L. So, 2021, really big year for us and were excited about 2022. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 4 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Awesome. Great overview. Why dont we dig right into the D2C business and run through that and talk about the traditional TV business. About a month ago, you guys announced ParamountPlus had its best week for sign - ups since the rebrand. What metrics are you looking at? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, as I said up top, like were really seeing incredible momentum in streaming including on the ParamountPlus side. As you note, in November, we announced we had our best week ever. I would also point out that November was our best month ever. And so, we have real momentum both in terms of subscriber additions as well as in total consum ption. And on the addition side, as we said on our last earnings call, we see Q4 accelerating versus Q3. And in fact, sitting here today, that acceleration is going to be greater than I thought when I made the comments on the call. So, feeling very good ab out that. We, of course, dont only look at subscribers to your question on KPIs. We also look at other metrics. We look at hours watched per household and weve seen very material growth there in the quarter. We look at churn obviously and weve seen con tinued improvement there. So, [ph] were feeling (00:05:10) very good about all these metrics were looking at for ParamountPlus and theyre clearly moving in the right direction. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Thats great. So, lets talk about the content side. So, whats driving all the engagement and the lower churn? What content is really bringing people in and keeping them involved? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Well, look, as you said, whats driving it is the content, and its really our broad content slate whether thats kids and family, whether thats movies, scripted, sports and events or unscripted, theyre all contributing. And for some sort of tangible examples of th at, look at Clifford, that set a new record as the services most watched exclusive film. We launched the first of a whole series of South Park specials in South Park: Post COVID. That set the record for first day of streaming across all movie and series d ebuts across ParamountPlus. Of course, I think everyones probably heard by now of Mayor of Kingstown, that was the number one scripted original drama weve launched since the rebrand of ParamountPlus. Id also point out that it was the biggest scripted premiere on cable since Yellowstone, reaching over 3 million viewers. And also in scripted, we did this cool thing with SEAL Team which is a CBS show and that totally worked. We moved it from CBS to ParamountPlus after four episodes, and weve seen that be a nice dri ver of subscribers. Over on the sports side, we set a new NFL regular season record in terms of viewers, streams, and minutes on Thanksgiving Day. And Id also point out, and this is amazing actually, it was the most watched linear game on linear since 19 98. So that Dallas game was truly incredible. Events matter too. Probably some of you saw the ADELE ONE NIGHT ONLY event. If you havent, you really should. It was spectacular, and that was a big hit on ParamountPlus and in linear. In fact, over 26 million pe ople watched that. And then lastly, unscripted continues to work. Thats a wheelhouse area for us. Latest season of MTVs The Challenge doing very nicely. And the other thing Id point out since I talked about these lanes is were also, and this was our t hesis, but were seeing consumption across the lanes from the same consumers. And thats really important because you might bring them in for one thing, but theyre dining out on more and thats key to managing subscriber life and reducing churn and all th at. And were definitely seeing that work. And were not ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 5 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC done with the content yet. I mean, we got more stuff coming, including this year. We have another animated film in Rumble, coming exclusively to ParamountPlus on December 15. Weve got the Yellowstone p requel 1883. By the way, I watched the first episode of that recently. Its amazing. Tim McGraw is really good in it and we got another South Park special. Both of those are in December and then you look to 2022, early 2022, you got Halo, you got The Godfa ther story, The Offer. Were really chock full in terms of content. Last point Id make here is marketing and I referenced a piece of it with the SEAL Team comment but we have a very powerful marketing strategy were using that really leverages our tradit ional assets. You see that what we did first day - and - date with Paw Patrol and then Clifford on the film side where the campaign spanned both. You see that with us launching this new Taylor Sheridan series on the back of Yellowstone. Thats Mayor of Kingsto wn and soon to be 1883. You see that in the move from CBS, [ph] the move of (00:09:00) SEAL Team from CBS to ParamountPlus. You see that without stumping around South Park on the cable in the Comedy Central side. And thats a real advantage that were going to continue to deploy. So, its not only about the content, obviously content is at the core, but its also about how were making consumers and fans aware of that content. And it just shows that we have a content engine that works and we have a marketing engine that works and thats true domestically, thats true globally, and its definitely driving ParamountPlus. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Yeah. It seems that youve seen a big expansion in the last couple of years. I mean Im watching a lot of these titles that youre talking about right now. Well come back to content, but first 2022 is going to be a big year for European expansion. Can you talk about the market opportunity I guess for both ParamountPlus and Showtime and SkyShowtime? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Ro bert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Sure. So, if 2021 was, at the core, about the launch of ParamountPlus, 2022 is really about global expansion. Not to say were not going to do a lot in the US, we are, bu t the international story is going to be really big in 2022 because what were doing is were leveraging that international infrastructure, the on - the - ground resources, the relationships, et cetera to quickly drive our streaming business outside the United States. We did a bunch of [ph] ad (00:10:16) in 2021. We launched in 25 markets, including Latin America, including the Nordics, including Australia. 2022 is about expanding into Western Europe, including in partnership with Sky. Theres really sort of t wo flavors of our Sky relationship. One is a commercial partnership, which were using to launch in the UK, in Germany, in Italy, where theyll be distributing ParamountPlus to all Sky Cinema subscribers. And for us, thats really a compelling way to accelera te our penetration while preserving 100% ownership of our streaming business. We also think it will have very attractive characteristics from a subscriber acquisition cost standpoint and from a churn standpoint. SAC should be significantly – both should be significantly lower than straight D2C. And importantly, we preserved our rights to do straight D2C in all these markets. So very excited about moving forward and operationalizing that deal, that sort of deals with Sky. And then, as you mentioned, were g oing to launch SkyShowtime and thats a 50/50 equity joint venture, 50% ViacomCBS, 50% Sky or Comcast. And that joint venture will target roughly 90 million broadband homes in 20 smaller, mostly Eastern European markets. By the way, we had no plan to launc h in those markets previous joint venture for at least two years, so it brings that timeframe forward significantly. We also believe it will allow us to ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 6 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC penetrate those markets, which again are small or midsized markets, faster and in a more cost effective manner and preserves capital for the larger markets on an O&O basis. And of course, it will benefit from a combined company or companies offering on the content side. So very excited about that. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Your peers are also expanding into Europe. It seems like its a big year for [ph] the D2C (00:12:20) platforms to move outside the US. Do you see room for all these services to succeed? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, In c. A Yeah, look, streaming – theres a big TAM out there. If you look at the data on number of subscriptions per consumer, that number continues to go up. So, its not a zero sum game. There is market share for multiple parties out there. I do very much l ike our positioning in that mix given the breadth and depth of our content, combined with our ability to really leverage on the ground relationships around the world again something youve seen us move quickly to. So, we feel great about penetrating that i nternational TAM. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q [indiscernible] (00:13:07) Asia is another potential area of growth for you. And I think this morning you guys announced [indiscernible] (00:13:14). ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A This morning we announce that we have a multifaceted partnership with CJ Entertainment there, a leading South Korean media company. And were doing a bunch of things with them, including having them launch P aramount+ in South Korea in 2022 in a bundle with a product that they are a significant equity owner in called TVING. And TVING is really a top local South Korean streaming service. And so, we like and they like this combination of bundling in ParamountPlus b ecause itll give you the benefit of kind of the best of local with the best of global, and we think that helps both of us. And for sure, it accelerates our plans in Asia because, again, we didnt have any near - term plans in Asia and now were going to be starting there in 2022. And you shouldnt be surprised if you see us do some other things there as well. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Got you. Now, bringing it back to the US. You announced a big wholesale deal with T - Mobile, obviously, on the back of what youre doing in Europe with Sky. Anything you can tell us about the economics of that relationship and are you seeing a strong reaction in terms of uptake in the [ph] US from (00:14:28)? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, Ive spoken at this conference. I think this is the fifth year. Actually, UBS conference was the first conference I spoke at when I became CEO of Viacom legacy. And Im pretty sure at that time, I said and Ive certainly said it repeatedly, since then that I fundamentally believe in the power of partnership. And that theres huge benefits to aligning with great brands and great companies to build important market share. And the T - Mo and Sky deals are example s of both. I already talked about Sky a little bit. On the T - Mobile side, we recently ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 7 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC launched with them in the US, where ParamountPlus was being offered to all their subscribers. Now, that deal has had no promotion yet, that was intentional. We wanted to kin d of get it up on the platform, et cetera. And now, the promo will really ramp as we get into 2022. And by the way, in 2022, well have integrated billing where you just click and youre setup. Right now, its not promoted and its not integrated billing. You have to put your credit card in. So, we have very modest expectations. We are ahead of those expectations, so were very pleased with it today. But again, 2022 is the big year certainly for T - Mobile. In terms of your question on economics, we like the deal. We see it as providing real advantages in acquiring and retaining subs in a very cost effective manner. And as you know, theyve already done a bunch of stuff in the streaming space, so they have a sense of how their platform and how consumers inter act. So, were very excited about that deal and believe it will pay significant dividends particularly as we get into 2022. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q So, is that in early 2022? Is that like a first quarter contribution, do you think you should start to see the advertising ramp - up for that? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The real push starts – itll affect Q1. And theres really two parts. Just to be clear, there s the ad piece and then theres the billing integration piece. And the ad piece is the first piece and then the billing integration kind of really kicks in after that. But by the time we get to the end of the first quarter, we should be in full swing. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... J ohn C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Got it. So, lets move on to the FAST market and Pluto. Pluto is on pace to be a $1 billion business this year. Have we seen the majority of the growth or how big can that get? And how much of this, the incremental ad spend, is sort of – the ad spend is incremental to the business? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, look, Pluto is the leading, as you said, FAST, free, ad - supported streaming tel evision service in the United States. And you see us quickly move to rollout in international markets, most recently in Italy. So, its rapidly becoming one of the top FAST services globally. As you know, because we talked about it in our Q3 call, at the e nd of Q3, we had 54 million monthly active users and we continue to expect that Plutos MAU ads will, like ParamountPlus, accelerate in Q4 versus Q3 because look, people, like many people, like free. When we first did the Pluto deal, people were confused, wha t are you doing. I mean, since then, a lot of people now understand the power of free, the power in the ad space, and the fact that free has a very large TAM, so the positioning of Pluto is great. The revenue model is really powerful here. Its part invent ory creation, part monetization on the inventory creation side. Were seeing the benefit of MAU growth and time spent. Thats what really creates the inventory. And then you monetize it through pricing and we got a lot of room to run on the pricing side a s well as sell - through. Weve lean more on sell - through than price to - date. But that combination, it really is working and its already at scale. I mean, Pluto, when we first said it would be $1 billion business in a couple of years, people thought we were nuts. Well, guess what? Its a $1 billion business this year and thats at least a year ahead of ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 8 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC what we thought at the time we said it. Why? Because its overwhelmingly super high value, attractive to advertiser, connected TV revenue, and that revenue th at were getting is really incremental to our linear business. Why? Because linear is supply constraint. And here, we have very high - quality supply. Were able to introduce into our existing agency and advertising relationships. And as I said, its working . And that revenue coming into the system, thats whats driving what we call our flywheel effect or actually more accurately, Tom Ryan, who runs streaming for us calls the flywheel effect. I just stole it from him. And that flywheel effect means as more revenue comes into the system, third - party content owners because obviously we have a lot of ViacomCBS content on the platform but theres a lot of third - party content too, theres like 200,000 hours of content on the platform in the US. So, as more revenu e comes in, these content for suppliers see more value on the platform, which in turn leads to a bigger and higher quality selection of content, which in turn leads to more revenue. So, the Pluto business is great. It has tremendous traction on the consume r and advertising side, and we feel great about the road ahead for Pluto in terms of growth. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q It sounds like the net ads up sequentially. And I guess your comments suggest that engagements have been very strong as well, which is surprising. I guess coming out of the pandemic everybody was locked in their homes, we thought that there would be some kind of slowdown in engagement, but doesnt really look like there is. Can you talk about whats driving that? Is it new content you guys are continually adding to the platform or whats driving the strong engagement? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A I think its two things. One is, yes, we continue to add compe lling content to the platform. Some content cycles through and we look to upgrade it. And again, given that we have more revenue, people are seeing more value and they want to be part of it. Thats one thing. But the other thing is its starting to become more habitual to people. When you first start using something, you might check it out here and there. But as people dig more into Pluto and they see the value of both the lean back linear offering, which continues to be most of the consumption by the way, as well as the on - demand product, people are spending more time with it. So, again, its a mix of both, I would say. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Got it. How does Showtime fit into the longer - term D2C strategy? And I guess over the last few months, you guys have been focusing on bundling ParamountPlus and Showtime. Is that helping to drive subs? Whats the uptake on that one? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, feel really great about Showtime. Showtime also had its best month ever in November in terms of both signups and consumption. And like ParamountPlus, thats driven by content. We had Dexter: New Blood. That set new records really for OTT signups on its premiere night, and its become Showtimes most watched drama debut ever. Its a great show by the way. We bought the original Showrunner back. If you guys like Dexter at all in prior seasons, you should really check it out. Its a great version of Dexter. And its not only worki ng back to our general story over the top, its also the most watched premium new series of the year on all of premium television. So, very happy with Dexter. ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 9 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC And then we introduced a new show to people this quarter, which is Yellowjackets. Its kind of a n intense series, involves a girls soccer team thats involved in a plane crash some years ago, and its all the backstory around that. And that quickly became Showtimes second biggest OTT series to - date. So, look, the D2C product is clearly connecting w ith consumers, and its going to continue. I look at the slate going forward. We have a show called Super Pumped: The Battle for Uber. This is by the Billions creators. That should be really good. We have Man Who Fell to Earth, which were excited about. A nd then we got a very cool show called The First Lady, which is all about a series of US first ladies. And all three of those are going to premiere in the first half of 2022, and I know Nevins and I are excited about all of them. And if you take it up a l evel, we really like this strategy that spans free, pay, and premium because were convinced, and early data suggests were right, that it allows us to unlock the largest total addressable market. And within that, the premium slice of it with Showtime, we re really benefiting from a differentiated brand position, really a pure brand position in premium. And were seeing the subscriber appeal. To your question on the bundle, the bundle of Showtime and ParamountPlus, which is only available on our owned and oper ated distribution, is off to a good start. And more broadly speaking, you look outside the US, were going to have a fully integrated product. So, Showtime remains an important part of our D2C equation. Were very happy with how its performing. And again, at the core, its about great content. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Right. Staying with content and sort of putting it all together, you guys suggest that D2C content spend is going to go from about $1 billion in 2020 to $5 billion in 2024. Can you give us a sense of, I guess, where do you expect 2021 to land and 2022 if possible? And one of the big questions were always getting is how much of that incremental spend is incremental to the company? [indiscernible] (00:24:29) anything you could give us on that would be great. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Sure, John. Look, were investing in streaming for two reasons. One is we know its the next leg of media. Theres no question about that. And two is because we know our content works and you only rewind to five minutes ago when were talking about the content both on ParamountPlus and Showtime to see our content is really connecting with consumers in streaming. We knew that initially from our licensed business. Now were repatriating and doing it for our O&O platforms, and it works. As weve said before, were more than doubling streaming content investment in 2021 versus 2020. And that doubling is back - weighted because it syncs up to when content has become available, in particular for ParamountPlus. And obviously, were having a big quarter. Now, we did reflect that in our Q4 outlook. And again, were executing on our plan. We said we would deploy incremental capital to strea ming. Thats exactly what were doing, and were very encouraged by the early results were seeing. In terms of total company spend, we will continue to increase streaming content investment in 2022 and 2023, but not all of that will be incremental to tot al content costs. As we have before, we will continue to remix as well as benefit from multi - platform utilization of content. On that second point, if you think about it, the whole CBS slate in the US does double duty. Youve seen us do a bunch of cross - pl atform moves. I talked about SEAL Team. We just recently did something with Loud House in terms of a holiday movie on Nickelodeon. And of course, were going to be running that whole original content slate globally which is another benefit. So, yes, we wil l continue to ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 10 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC invest. The streaming investment wont be totally incremental. But were doing it because were seeing positive results and because we see a big prize out there. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q And what lanes do you think tha t this is sort of getting back to what we were talking about earlier, you have sports, youve got live events, youve got kids, youve got movies, youve got scripted drama series. I mean, what areas do you think you guys could go deeper into and drive gro wth? [indiscernible] (00:26:52) tying it all together, were talking about Europe, were talking about Asia. Can you just talk a little bit about sort of locally produced or international content that might help drive some growth in those individual market s? Just trying to get a sense for where those incremental dollars will be deployed. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, look, as I said earlier, we are actually seeing all those lanes work on the Paramount side, so we will continue to increase investment in all of them. They wont be at the same level. You will see more benefit or more product from the film side. Now, thats partially because as you come out of COVID, you have more [ph] pay one (0 0:27:31) availability. And again, we like this fast follow strategy, so more product will show up just simply because more will be released theatrically. We continue to grow our scripted line - up. That took a little while to get going for P+ given COVID pro duction delays, but now youre seeing that come online. We love kids. Were already at, really at scale at kids. So thats probably not material growth there, but well continue to introduce fresh product. On sports, likewise, were in a good place on spo rts with the NFL, with some of our European football properties, et cetera. So, well look selectively, but I like the waiting that we have now. And then on scripted, well continue to build that out because thats a real wheelhouse. So, youll see growth in all those to varying degrees. And then to your question on global, one of the other big things thats going to happen in 2022 is were really going to leverage our ex - US production at places like Telefe in Latin America, which has its own like mini Para mount lot makes over 1,000 hours of content a year. Well start to use that as part of our global slate. Well add in content from the UK, from Israel, some stuff from Down Under, so well harness that. That will both give us local relevance as well as imp roved sort of cost per episode. And one of the related things were doing there is were setting up some offshore unscripted hubs to do formats, which will take down our costs and well use them for US product too, made for CBS, made for MTV. And that wil l take down our cost per episode, but increase the level of offering were able to have all around the world. So, a lot going on in the content space that really leverages the tremendous capabilities we have. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Got it. So, certainly one of the themes over the last [ph] six ROGs (00:29:28), like 5 to 10 years frankly has been just increasing budgets of players in the media space especially D2C I guess most recently you saw Disney go to $33 billion talking about their content spend. You guys have this [indiscernible] (00:29:43) $5 billion in 2024. What gives you confidence that this is the right level of spend for the D2C business longer - term? And I guess like many of your peers, you have to wait to see what Disco very says after the HBO Max deal closes but what gives you confidence that this is the right level, or if you look out, youre not going to need to spend more than that to continue to drive growth? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 11 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. Look, its an excellent question. A lot of discussion on that in the industry today. What I can tell you from our perspective is we are executing against the plan that we first debuted to investors earlier this year. We are ahead of that plan in terms of subscriber and top line performance. Weve got all kind of KPIs that say our content investment is really working. And in fact, driving our business faster than we anticipated at that time. And its definitely correlated to our planned ramp in spending where you see more original scripted series this quarter than, say, in the second quarter. So, thats why were confident in our plan because the early data suggests it is working and confirms that consumers all around the world are attracted to ViacomCBS content and will spend money to get it in the form of subscriptions or time in the form of Pluto. Now again, Pluto is more library, but we feel were on the right track. And you look at the metrics, I mean our pay subscribe rs since our year - to - date have grown by 17 million. Were at around 47 million as of the end of the third quarter and again the net ads will increase in the fourth quarter. Weve picked up about $1.2 billion of incremental streaming revenue year - to - date. A nd now were at this $5 billion run rate as we look at the fourth quarter that were currently in. So, again, its early data. Theres a lot of discussion about it. But what I can see looking at all this is our plan is working and arguably better than we t hought when we crafted it. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Makes sense. So, it sounds like we already got some profitability data. This is the last question on the D2C side. Were going to get some profitability info from you guys, I guess starting in the first quarter. What can you tell us about the sort of profitability of the D2C segment today? And maybe if you could delineate between what youre seeing at Pluto and then versus SVOD? And when do you expect to see sort of peak earnings pr essure from the investments in these D2C businesses? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah, sure. So, to set it up a bit, when you think about ViacomCBS and streaming, whether its top line or bottom li ne, you really should think about three advantages we have. And its this combination that I believe gets us to a very good place particularly over time. One is clear benefit from multiplatform and windowing. You heard me talk about numerous examples of th at earlier today. Two is global and weve long been a global operating company and we will continue to be and theres a lot of, as you know, eyeballs out there. I think Sumner once said that 97% of the worlds eyeballs are outside the United States and th ats directionally true. So big market opportunity for us to unlock and lean on our relationships, et cetera, like you saw us do this morning with CJ, and importantly, a strategy that fully embraces dual revenue streams. We like the subscription business, but we like the ad business too. And again, that combination, if you want to think in TAM terms, its the largest TAM revenue. And we see clear benefit of being in both from serving customers as well as from driving our revenues and ultimately creating mar gins. We do [ph] believe (00:33:45) streaming will be accretive to our business over time. As I said, were ahead. And one interesting fact that we havent mentioned on the Pluto side since you asked specifically is Pluto in the domestic US today is profit able. Now, we havent been running it for profitability. Weve been running it for growth, but its actually profitable in 2021 and its at margins approaching broadcast. So, this business clearly has the opportunity to create incremental bottom line value. And with the subscription side of it, where earlier in that curve, we only launched ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 12 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC ParamountPlus this year. Itll take a couple of years as it has for everyone to get to profitability. But again, we look at our plans, we get there as well. And again, we strongly feel were on the right track and that this is an incremental business. I love the fact that its a $5 billion run rate business this quarter annually. And were very excited about the road ahead. Were obviously continue to be very focused on how were investing money. We literally look at it weekly, but were pleased with where we are. And youre going to see more of that as investors because as I said, were having this investor event in early 2022. In this investor event, were going to pro vide actually slightly ahead of it, enhanced segment disclosure, new segments, which include a D2C segment, so you can see that business top and bottom line separately from call it the legacy [ph] business (00:35:19). And we think thats going to help you understand better the value [ph] on the streaming side and traditional side (00:35:30), which is very material. And so, that should help you with things like sum - of - the - parts and all, and were really looking forward to taking all of you through that. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Jo hn C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q And Bob, do you expect to give guidance on that D2C business in terms of both sort of peak earnings dilution from D2C as well as sort of a timetable for when we get to sort of see EBITDA breakeven in that segmen t? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, were going to provide an updated view on the business. I dont want to get into all the specific metrics... ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Sure. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A ...but there will be certainly some, call it, top line - related stuff as well as looking at margins and the like and how that tracks out over time. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodu lik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Got it. Looking forward to that. Maybe lets turn to the sort of the traditional business with the time we have. Maybe starting first with advertising. Any impact youre seeing from the supply chain issues were hearing a bout and hows the scatter market turning? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Well, look, Ill start by saying were not immune from the supply chain issues that are out there. That said, this is a transitory issue. Its not a long - term reflection of the ad market. And were certainly very well - positioned for the rebound of it. And regardless of that challenge, we do see growth in Q4 linear advertising as we look at it today. The underlying health of the business is good. Theres strong pricing out there. Theres good demand from a variety of categories. Speaking of categories, were seeing health in some categories that were weak, call it, ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 13 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC earlier in the year. And thats movies, thats retail, that s travel. So, yes, supply chain is a bit of a headwind, but we will grow and the business overall is looking very good. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Got it. And I mean, the drivers of that, I guess, are these categories coming back, the new pricing in the scatter market. I guess as you look out to 1Q, do you think that – I mean again in every presentation from an advertising standpoint, we talk about these supply chain issues. Do you think that that could drag into or have a noticeable i mpact as you look out into 2022 or is it more transitory? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A I think it is transitory. I also dont think anyone really knows what the exact timeline of coming out of it is. I know the retailers are working really hard and the big ones have made a lot of progress. So, I think youre going to see categories rebound at different rates and probably that feathers in as you go into 2022 and beyond. But a precise timetable is a little hard to call overall at the moment. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Sure. You had some positive comments on affiliate renewals earlier in the presentation. How is pricing or anything you can tell us about pricing on [ph] recent rene wals (00:38:26)? Obviously, youve done a lot of work on the cable side recently. And anything you could tell us also about the scope of those deals. I know that theyve sort of become a lot more holistic and include distribution of your apps and it just s eems to us that theres been – these renewals are a lot less contentious. It seems like you guys are getting the pricing and getting distribution of your apps. Just anything you can tell us about just the overall environment in terms of these affiliate dea ls. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, look, Im feeling great about our role in the affiliate side of the business. Were clearly a cornerstone supplier to MVPDs and vMVPDs in the US and beyond . Our content matters to their customers. And we know how to get deals done. We have a lot of levers to pull, whether thats pricing on [indiscernible] (00:39:17) whether its on - demand product, advanced advertising. Now, were distributing apps with folks , whether thats pay or free. And we have a world - class team doing it. So, we feel very good about it and youve seen us do deal after deal after deal. We continue to get ARPU improvements and continue to have annual escalators. We continue to grow our dis tribution of our newer products like ParamountPlus and Pluto and we continue to see growth including in the fourth quarter. So, feel very good about whats going on there. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Got you. And then lastly on the traditional business just licensing trends going forward. Obviously, its a big part of your business, licensing your content to third parties. How should we expect that to trend over the next several years as you sort of balance growth and/or cash flows i n that business with growth in the D2C business? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 14 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Yeah. So, licensing is a big business and I would note just from a definitional standpoint, it includes a lot of things. It includes our home entertainment business whether thats physical or digital. It includes syndicated television. It includes consumer products. And of course, it includes licensing content. If you look at the near - term, that business will continue to re flect licensing deals including of original content that we did before we launched ParamountPlus because you typically do life of series deals, so there are some series that were going to continue to fulfill. And thats certainly going to impact on a revenu e basis positively next couple of quarters, et cetera. As we increasingly transition to leveraging our particularly franchises and original production for our owned and operated streaming assets principally ParamountPlus, I would and that in turn will create a decline in that third - party business over time as these deals roll off. I would note that as an example of that, we just took back Star Trek: Discovery internationally from Netflix. And so, we now have that property globally. Thats clearly a core franc hise for us. And its working. We just launched Season 4 I guess it is, and its off to the fastest start in terms of subscribers than all of the Discovery series seasons to - date. So, were feeling good about that. Again, were on a path where you will see us increasingly maximize our franchises for our owned and operated benefit. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Makes sense. Maybe some sort of bigger picture questions about the industry. Obviously, weve seen a spate of consolidation. Viacom has been a part of it. I mean, how do you expect the – do you expect more consolidation among the traditional media industry? And then maybe thinking about ViacomCBS itself, I mean, do you believe at this point that as the world transitions to D2C t hat Viacom sort of has the scale to sort of compete in that business longer - term? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, John, always a popular question. I think theres certainly potential for addi tional consolidation in this industry, particularly with respect to the smaller players, and theres some narrative around that with some companies as we speak. We will certainly look at opportunities in that regard. Weve done a number of deals particular ly internationally, most recently Fox TeleColombia [indiscernible] (00:42:56) Mexico. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Right. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A So, well look at it. But big picture, we really like the configuration of the company. You see us extracting significant value from it, particularly on the streaming growth side. So, we feel very good about that. And were going to continue to focus overwhelmingly on organic execu tion because thats where we see material value creation ahead. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 15 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Got it. And then maybe the other side of the fence, are there additional sort of non - core assets that you think you could look to sell? And the n any color you can give us on the Simon & Schuster process? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, we made a commitment to all of you that we would divest non - core assets as part of the ViacomCBS m erger. Youve seen us move very quickly in that regard, divesting real estate assets like Black Rock and Radford divisional assets, non - core divisional assets like CNET and Simon & Schuster. Weve done on the order of $5 billion of divestitures since the d eal closed. And again, feel very good about the value were extracting there and using that value to support our financial priorities, which are investing in streaming, continuing to return capital to shareholders through our dividend, and deleveraging our balance sheet. I mean, I remember the first time I was on with you, John, we were over 5 times levered [ph] five (00:44:23) years ago. Now, it starts with a low 2. So, were in great shape financially. And part of that is that we moved swiftly and aggres sively in terms of non - core asset disposition. I will tell you that there really, at the moment when I look at our portfolio, there arent any other significant non - core assets. So, were probably through the activity there. Yes, we do have to close Simon & Schuster [indiscernible] (00:44:52 - 00:45:01) transaction is in the best interest of consumers [indiscernible] (00:45:07) also say that PRH, Penguin Random House has agreed to take all necessary steps to obtain the required regulatory approvals, including defending the transaction through litigation. So thats what theyll do if need be. In terms of when it closes, its kind of hard to predict. Obviously, we look forward to resolving this as soon as reasonably possible. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Q Got it. And then just last for me. Post the sale of the lot and some of these other asset sales, youre going to have a fair amount of cash on the balance sheet. As you said, the leverage has come down. You touched on it, but can you just give us a sense for sort of uses of cash. Is all that cash going to be used to support and grow the D2C business? Or is there other – is it possible to sort of return excess cash to shareholders through buybacks or other means? ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish Presid ent, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. A Yeah. So, in order, were going to invest in streaming. Were going to pay our dividend. And you know, we might do some small, small tuck - in acquisitions here or there, but its overwhelmingly about financing our organic plan and maintaining a strong financial position for our investor base. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Perfect. Thats great, Bob. I think thats all we have time for. Thank you very much for participating again as always. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ViacomCBS, Inc. Yeah. Well, look, its great to be with you. I hope next year, well actually be in person. Im confident that we will be. And just to close, I feel great about 2021. Weve done everything we said we would, including [ph] advancing (00:46:48) really strong momentum in streaming. And youll see that in our fourth quarter streaming numbers ViacomCBS, Inc. ( VIAC ) UBS Global TMT Conference Corrected Transcript 07 - Dec - 2021 1 - 877 - FACTSET www.callstreet.com 16 Copyright  2001 - 2021 FactSet CallStreet, LLC where they accelerate nicely. You heard that today in terms of Pluto being p rofitable on a domestic US basis and you see the road ahead. So, were excited about whats to come. Were excited about our content that we have out today. Were excited about 2022 and were confident its going to continue to pay dividend. And I would sa y were more than confident. Shari and I have conviction on this because you will note that both of us bought stock in November. [indiscernible] (00:47:23) extraordinarily undervalued company and were committed to creating real shareholder value here and we fundamentally believe were on the path to do so. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Perfect. Thats great, Bob. Again, thanks for joining us and thank you all for attending. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... Robert Marc Bakish President, Chief Executive Officer & Director , ViacomCBS, Inc. Thanks, John. Thanks, everyone. Stay well. Bye - bye. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... John C. Hodulik Analyst, UBS Securities LLC Bye - bye."
"Paramount";"News Release";"In The Office With... CREATING AN INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE AT VIACOMCBS Wincie OCT. 22, 2021 By Nicole Bitette Illustration by NoelleRx. Our In the Office With ... series, gives ViacomCBS executives the opportunity to reveal a little bit about who they are, how they lead, and what drives them in the day-to-day. For Wincie Knight, joining ViacomCBS Office of Global Inclusion team was a natural transition for someone who prioritizes the happiness of others and fostering a culture where people can bring their true selves to work every day. Knight, who is the VP of Global Inclusion for ViacomCBS in the U.K., began her career at Nickelodeon as part of a team working to increase representation in childrens shows and she has since evolved her passions into ensuring ViacomCBS is actively creating an accepting workplace for people of all backgrounds. One of the key initiatives she works on is the companys annual global Inclusion Week, which features various speakers and events aimed at fostering a sense of inclusion and belonging. Diversity and inclusion means to see people connected, valuing each other for what they bring to the table, says Knight. Inclusion Week is the opportunity for us to learn by leaning into great inclusion week offerings and most importantly to understand the value of creating an environment thats inclusive for all. Knight spoke about ViacomCBS commitment to diversity and inclusion in the U.K. and having patience through change.  Nicole Bitette: When did you start your career at ViacomCBS? Wincie Knight: I started at Nickelodeon working in the Viewers Response Unit [VRU]. Which, Im not going to lie, was the best job ever. Connecting with the heart of Viacom/Nickelodeon audiences was amazing because kids are so truthful, they were so honest, and my blood started turning orange. I just had a love for Nickelodeon, because it was something that was so different in the U.K. back then: kids seeing themselves reflected on TV. We were constantly getting positive responses from children because of shows like Kenan and Kel and Sister, Sister. Black kids were seeing themselves reflected on TV and they loved it. Our audiences were constantly praising us for our content and it was great to hear first hand. Ive been at ViacomCBS for more than 20 years and sort of crafted my job throughout my years. I went on maternity leave and after having a child realized that we didnt have any policies that safeguard children. So whilst I was on maternity leave, I wrote a child protection policy. I felt this compelling need to connect the two things—the love of working with children and safeguarding children because of my new found motherly instinct. When I returned to work after maternity leave, I went to the then HR leader (who was also my manager) with a proposal for a new role, which was approved leading me into a new direction of child welfare Manager. Ive crafted my role at Viacom constantly throughout the years by looking to see what the business needed. NB: How did you end up on the Office of Global Inclusion team? WK: I met Marva Smalls at the launch of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) in the U.K. After learning about ERGs I wanted to create an ERG that focused on cultural diversity. I met with a group of employees and we came up with the idea of Fusion. Fusion is a combination of all the other ERGs which focus on race and ethnicity. Fusion is a cultural melting pot where we celebrate everything from Chinese New Year, Black History Month, Hanukkah, Diwali, Eid etc. Being part of the inception of Fusion, I realized that this could be a new direction in my career, moving outside of kids TV. Fundamentally, I am a person who loves people and is curious about people. After obtaining a Masters degree in organizational behavior, I realized that I wanted to go into the area of diversity and inclusion. I wanted to make a difference. I wanted to understand the different hurdles that certain groups faced within the corporate world. So for me, it made sense to go into a department like the Office of Global Inclusion, because its all about championing and fostering an inclusive culture, which I felt was an ideal role. For me, thats the reason why I applied for the role of manager, Global Inclusion. NB: What inspires you to do what you do? WK: When you are championing inclusion it is about fostering a culture where people are bringing their whole selves to work, and not putting on a mask. So, the role that we [the Office of Global Inclusion] have is to foster that environment where were encouraging people with our strap lines such as, Bring Your Whole Selves to Work, Be You. Belong. Were constantly reminding people that we want them to be their authentic selves. The thing that I say is, Whose voice is missing? And when you champion missing voices, you can bring more voices to the table, and when you have authentic voices you make magic. Youre innovative, youre creative, and youre not stunting anybodys originality. As a media organization, we want people to be creative, we want people to be original and authentic and we want to create a workplace where we are reflective of society.   Inclusion takes time. When you know youve got leaders who fundamentally care and want to make a difference, thats really important. Wincie NB: What led to the recent prioritization of DE&I across the industry? WK: Theres been a big racial awakening and employees are calling out inequalities. But for me, I feel proud to have been working for an organization that focused on inclusion long before the murder of George Floyd. For example, in 2018, we worked with an organization called Caerus Executive who came in and held a mirror up to our organization and they pointed out some ugly truths. Careus Executive gave a number of recommendations to address how Black, Asian and minority Ethnic employees were feeling. Sustainable change happens slowly over a period of years and we just rolled out last year the first U.K. Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic Talent Sponsorship program, where we paired a senior leader with a person from a Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic background. The sponsee and Sponsor worked on a year-long project. This was in partnership with Learning and Development. What I found amazing about the process was the employees who didnt get on the sponsorship program were so humble and grateful that as an organization we were running such a program, they felt proud to be part of ViacomCBS. That is testimony to the employees that we have, although they didnt get that opportunity they were still happy to be working for an organization that was pushing out programming to address representation. For me, that also makes me proud that I can be part of an organization that listens to employees and takes action to make a change. I think that is testimony to Marvas leadership, running listening sessions throughout the business giving employees a voice that has a platform to be heard. Inclusion takes time, people can be frustrated and think, Oh, were not moving the dial. But, when you look at the data, the data is telling us were going in the right direction. Nothing happens overnight and you cant always please everyone, but when you know youve got leaders who fundamentally care and want to make a difference, thats really important. NB: What are some of the issues your team is prioritizing? WK: From a U.K. perspective, we have a lot of challenges because we are heavily regulated and we have to answer to organizations such as Ofcom and the Government Gender Pay Gap. When Ofcom is asking you about your data and about inclusion within your organization, you have to provide the information. We have to provide data year-on-year, it is an opportunity to see if were going forward or if were going backward. I see it as a checkpoint to constantly evaluate how were doing. I think we have come a long way. Marvas tagline is: Ours is a shared journey. We are being really transparent with the data that we have and I believe employees value this transparency. There is an opportunity to see if we are making a difference and having a department such as the Office of Global Inclusion ensures diversity, equity, and inclusion are a business priority. We partner with HR and Communications and other department that help us move needle and make the various businesses smarter. The data has improved year-on-year and thats because were really intentional in creating programming to address any shortcomings that we see, or any skews within the data. Working with HR and Talent Acquisitions allows us to come up with action plans and create partnerships that truly make a difference. I think thats when you can see that things are changing, when the data is going in the right direction. NB: Can you tell me about Inclusion Week? WK: Inclusion Week is the opportunity for us to lean in and understand the value of creating a culture thats inclusive for all. Its an opportunity for us to bring in thought leaders. Its an opportunity for employees to learn , to be inspired, and to hear from talent. Its a tentpole moment for us to really promote the value of difference and the value of creating inclusive cultures. Listen together, learn together, belong together is the theme this year. NB: What are some of the highlights youve experienced during previous Inclusion Weeks? WK: The first Inclusion Week, one of the highlights for me was the Kingdom Choir (British gospel choir invited to perform at the wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle). When youve got all the different voices of a choir coming together to make a beautiful sound , it affects you. I always say, Inclusion is a feeling, you feel included or you dont feel included. So when you have an event that immerses you in a feeling, its so powerful that you go, Aaarrr. That is a moment that I will never forget. Seeing everybody in the atrium at Hawley Crescent, standing, sitting, dancing, and clapping, that is togetherness and that is what we want, isnt it? To foster a culture where everybody feels that they are part of something and we are in it together. SMALL TALK  What are you currently obsessed with? WK: For me, Zooming all day , sitting down on my bottom and not moving very much because of the many lockdowns has made me actually want to get healthy and fit. Mentally, we need to look after ourselves. I think your mind and your body are one. So, Im now obsessed with getting fit. Whats the best advice youve ever received? WK: If youve been given a seat at the table, take it and use your voice for good. Dont underestimate yourself. My advice would be to be kind to yourself, be your best friend internally, and give yourself some positive affirmations on a daily basis because we can be our worst enemy, so you have to consciously combat that by being your own positive best friend. Be your own hype person. How do you describe what you do to someone youve just met? WK: I describe myself as a champion of Inclusion."
"Paramount";"News Release";"CULTURE OF INFLUENCE: FROM CREATOR TO CORPORATION OCT 20, 2021 The latest generation of creators are expanding the definition of an influencer. Heres what brands, marketers, and media planners need to know. With increasing power and cultural cache, todays biggest influencers are creative powerhouses at the frontlines of a rapidly evolving influence marketing industry. They also drive mainstream culture and fuel the advertising economy, as YouTube sensations join A-list celebrities on the prestigious Met Gala red carpet and TikTok stars snag mega endorsement deals with Fortune 500 companies. In fact, 27% of Gen Z and millennial consumers associate the word influencer with someone who is impacting culture in significant ways. For the second installment of its EyeQ Culture Of... series, the ViacomCBS Creative Strategy and Cultural Intelligence team conducted a nationwide quantitative survey, consumer and expert interviews, and cultural analysis. The result is the Culture of Influence report, which uncovers the evolution of todays online creators into entrepreneurs and outlines what that means for brands, marketers, and media planners looking to enter cultural conversations and connect with online and offline audiences. CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FULL REPORT Being a Creator is the New American Dream 2020 became a watershed year for creatordom when the coronavirus pandemic drove life online. People of all ages and backgrounds flooded the creator space as they made career pivots, tried out new platforms, or simply looked for connections. The profession has a massive appeal, as nearly half of Gen Z and millennial audiences said they would like to press a button to instantly morph into a full-time creator. The allure of being a creator is tied the freedom that comes with being your own boss. Gen Z and millennials survey respondents reported that financial independence and having a positive impact were the top motivators for having a career as an online creator, at 19% and 18% respectively. Fame was a motivator for only 2% of respondents. Its also affecting how the next generation of adults thinks about their careers. More American kids today say they want to grow up to be a YouTube star (29%) than an astronaut (11%), according to SignalFire, a venture capital firm that invests in seed-stage and breakout companies.  This is more than just kids making videos on the internet. This is the New American Dream. Whether YouTubers, TikTokers, Twitch gamers, Instagram models, Substack writers, Patreon podcasters, Clubhouse hosts or Pinterest pinners, creator roles are redefining social entrepreneurship. This is more than just kids making videos on the internet. This is the New American Dream, said Kaelyn Kastle, a Bermudian pop artist and member of Collab Crib, an all-Black Gen Z creator mansion. Collab Crib and Hype House are among several incubators designed to support rising influencers-as-brands with resources, infrastructure, and distribution. Recognizing the opportunity, major brands are partnering with influencers to connect to consumers. For example, Dunkin Donuts collaborated with TikToks most followed creator Charli DAmelio to add The Charli cold brew to menus nationwide and launch a limited-edition merch collection. To build hype around its limited-edition Travis Scott meal, McDonalds partnered with ViacomCBS to pick ten influencers such as Sterling Shepard and Lexi Hensler. It was the first in a series of famous orders collaborations with cultural juggernauts such as J. Balvin and Saweetie McDonalds used promote its meals.    Creators Latest Subscribers: Venture Capitalists Another sign that the creator economy is here to stay? Millions of dollars flowing into the industry from venture capital. New monetization models and VC-funded apparatuses have leveled the playing field for anyone interested in converting their clout into a credible career path and seizing ownership over their personas. Fifty creator-focused start-ups this year have seen investments around $2 billion, according to The Informations Creator Economy Database. Influencers are also becoming venture capitalists. Consider MrBeast, a YouTuber-turned-venture-capitalist who started Creative Juice, an investment fund that enables people to invest in creators and offers influencers a suite of tools so they can act more like small businesses. Venture capital is now pouring into the once unfunded worlds of content creation and curation. We will see new economies spring up and existing ones accelerate, explained Grant McCracken, a cultural anthropologist and author featured in the Culture of Influence report.  Creator-Forward Brand Partnerships As creators step into the land of corporate power and celebrity, advertisers must reckon with influencers newfound power and institutionalization. They need to think beyond the typical brand-creator relationship to treat creator partnerships as collaborations rather than a one-sided amplification of their brands message. To increase the effectiveness of campaigns, advertisers should understand each influencers audience, aspirations, and goals. And, borrowing from stock market logic, brands and businesses should consider investing in early-stage creators. –– Get up to speed on four critical shifts outlining the pervasive impact of online creators and their communities on culture, brands, and beyond in ViacomCBS groundbreaking study titled The Culture of Influence, the second installment of the culture-forward EyeQ whitepaper series. The first installment, titled The Culture of Streaming can be found here."
"Paramount";"News Release";"Streaming On HOW VIACOMCBS IS EXPANDING ITS INTERNATIONAL STREAMING REACH OCT 08, 2021 The opportunity in streaming is massive and having a strategy that is successful in the U.S. and internationally is absolutely fundamental for ViacomCBS. Last month, ViacomCBS reached a deal with Sky to launch SkyShowtime in over 20 European markets—a partnership that will allow the company to rapidly expand its international streaming presence in markets where ParamountPlus has yet to launch. Weve been able to align our priorities, which are to roll-out ParamountPlus and Pluto TV all over the world to secure our leading position in the AVOD and SVOD landscape, said Raffaele Annecchino, President and CEO of ViacomCBS Networks International. Annecchinos mission is to fuel the companys new lines of business, including ParamountPlus and Pluto TV, with content creation from ViacomCBS broadcast and free-to-air networks like CBS and Telefe. In an interview from the ViacomCBS video series Streaming On, Annecchino shared how the company will expand its international streaming offering to reach consumers all around the globe over the next few years. Below is a condensed version of Annecchinos chat with Streaming On host Dometi Pongo. Dometi Pongo: Why is it important for ViacomCBS to expand its streaming presence internationally? Raffaele Annecchino: The opportunity in streaming is massive and having a strategy that is successful in the U.S. and internationally is absolutely fundamental for ViacomCBS. We live more and more in a global world and streaming is the perfect example of that. We are a leading company in the U.S., as well as international. Its a fundamental asset to secure our winning strategy over the next year. Weve proven in the past that we are able to create IP that resonates globally: I think about the SHOWTIME(r) content, to Paramount movies, to kids content like Nickelodeon and SpongeBob. The reality is that for months ParamountPlus has been traveling all over the world, and with the distribution of our studio content in various markets we have more and more content with the potential to become global IP—that is our objective. The combination of all these assets will make ViacomCBS a unique offer internationally and Im sure would be the basis of the success of our streaming strategy in the future. DP: Describe what you do at ViacomCBS to help carry out that strategy? RA: My mission as president and the CEO of ViacomCBS Networks International is to secure ViacomCBS position as one of the leading global media companies today. Our objective is to secure the rollout of our cable and streaming platforms in all the key markets of the world. We will have our services available in more than 60 markets by the end of 2022. The focus for the future is the expansion of our international presence on streaming platforms. DP: What deals have you worked on over the last year or so to expand the companys international streaming presence? RA: One of ViacomCBS biggest assets internationally is the great partnerships that we have been building with MVPDs over the last decades. We have great partners in the U.S., Comcast is one of them, and internationally with Sky, Telefonic, and more. What is going to be another element of our success story in streaming is the most transformative approach in these last few months is increasing our partnerships with MVPDs in the streaming world. Weve been able to align our priorities, which are to roll-out ParamountPlus and Pluto TV all over the world to secure our leading position in the AVOD and SVOD world. We have to shift value from our traditional business to streaming. For example, thats what we did in the Sky deal which is the most transformative deal that we have done and positions ViacomCBS once more as a leading company is also driving and managing the shift to new business, which are the key pillars of the deal with Sky. On one hand, weve announced the launch of ParamountPlus in Italy, the UK, and Germany, which are the three most important markets in Europe. Were making ParamountPlus available to nine million subscribers in 2022—its a big win that secures revenue sooner and this is exactly what the industry is expecting once you present a roll-out of a streaming service. Two, this is fundamental, weve been able to repatriate content were selling to our partners for ParamountPlus and delivering value to our MVPD partners. Thirdly, it allows us to shift our relationship from our linear distribution channels to streaming, including rights. Fourth, our position is our strength in the ad sales markets, including those three in Europe. With Sky, we only reinforce the performance of Channel 5 in the UK, as well as accelerate the growth into the FAST world with Pluto TV, which we are launching in Italy and already have in the UK and Germany. The combination of these four pillars makes this deal absolutely transformative. This helps us raise the bar in a streaming world where the competition can become more intense. DP: What is our competitive advantage in streaming, globally? RA: This is something that Bob [Bakish, CEO of ViacomCBS] saw early on. We invested in broadcast and free-to-air, because owning Telefe in Argentina or Network 10 in Australia or Channel 5 in the UK has a different reach. Not only is it another platform for the audience to shift from our linear to streaming, but also its a great opportunity to deliver premium content to our streaming services. One of the most-watched shows on ParamountPlus in Argentina is a spin-off to Master Chef, which was a primetime series on Telefe. One of the most-watched shows in Australia is Five Bedrooms, which was in primetime last year on Network 10 and we moved season 2 to ParamountPlus. The strategy allows us to migrate across our ecosystem, its a unique opportunity to produce and promote premium content and monetize it at different moments in the lifecycle of the content. We have a brand that resonates all over the world with ParamountPlus. We have a global content strategy that is improving every day and the fantastic performance of all the content coming from all the studios. And, we saw more and more the contribution of the local content becoming global. We have the most strategic setup in terms of business model, we are also taking advantage of our partnerships that will now become a critical pillar of our strategy in streaming. Were transforming what people see as a challenge with our linear business as a great opportunity to grow streaming. The talent we have in our company is aligning the global strategy with local execution and we have great people in all those positions across the board. Content is becoming more and more global. And, we are basically creating an organization that will deliver more and more real benefits from the U.S. to the world. DP: What content has resonated globally and what local IP are you seeing really taking off? RA: We have an unparalleled collection of global and local content on ParamountPlus in the U.S. and internationally. We have a great content arsenal that includes some of the largest and most valuable collections of entertainment in the world, including the Paramount Pictures films. This strategy of developing global franchises as well as the global formats now becomes hits all over the world. Our plan is to create global content hubs, which will follow the formula of what content has worked in other markets and localize this content for a specific market. Think about the Shore franchise. One of the most-watched shows in Latin America is Acapulco Shore and now were going to produce a big number of Shore series to serve all the audiences all over the world. Year ago we invested in Portas De Fundos, which will now produce comedies for all of our markets. Were going to have SHOWTIMEs Dexter: New Blood premiering soon and we have a unique strategy for ParamountPlus originals for our kids content, as well as scripted and unscripted. Yellowstone is one of our hits thats traveled across borders. The reason for our success will be our capacity to anticipate the trends. DP: What types of content are you personally looking forward to? RA: Weve been talking a lot about the new global strategy around reality and new kids series from Nickelodeon. With kids, iCarly is the latest example of something thats really resonated. I also have big expectations out of Showtime and the ParamountPlus originals, and of course the movies. The combination of scripted, movies, reality, kids, makes the ParamountPlus offering both one of the most general and unique out there. DP: How does functioning as a global production company factor into diversity and inclusion at ViacomCBS overall? RA: Content is becoming more and more global. And, we are basically creating an organization that will deliver more and more real benefits from the U.S. to the world. The fact that our content teams reside globally will make ViacomCBS a more diverse and inclusive company, because we see that being diverse and inclusive also means to produce content from all over the world. So, to be able to reflect the different cultures and allow people to work together from many different markets is fundamental and is part of our DNA as viral CBS that we should be all proud of. ViacomCBS invested in this early on, without a real business purpose, back when we aired MTV Shuga in Africa. I was impressed about the role of MTV in Africa when I started more than 20 years ago. It was a time when the AIDS epidemic was an important issue that needed to be addressed and we were doing that with Shuga. The fact MTV was able to cover such an important, dramatic part of life and allow people to understand the importance of preventing AIDS through content is powerful. Today, I think its even more relevant because it shows that every story can become a global story. Being able to deliver these stories to global audiences also indicates the responsibility we have to use our content to promote values all over the globe."
"Paramount";"News Release";"MARKETING HALO INTO A STREAMING HIT MARCH 24, 2022 By Adele Plumail Our campaign leverages every corner of Paramounts portfolio to bring more fans to the beloved gaming franchise—and to ParamountPlus. You could say that our cross-platform, cross-brand promotional campaign for the new ParamountPlus original Halo, which has been building for months, is the culmination of years of ambition, vision, and work. Its the biggest cross-company campaign weve ever done, reflecting Paramounts focus on streaming and our ability to market content to audiences across our uniquely powerful portfolio. It taps into the full breadth of our owned and operated channels and platforms to draw in audiences. And as an owned campaign, its complementary to ParamountPluss overall marketing campaign that positions Halo as a must-watch series for fans of the video game, of thrilling premium dramas, and of general entertainment subscribers on ParamountPlus. It all started with the question, What makes a streaming hit? To achieve the broader marketing goals for Halo, we knew wed need to leverage our portfolio. Expanding Halos Potential With Paramounts Portfolio Our starting point for the cross-company campaign was the franchise. Halo is super sticky IP with a fan base that has grown for more than 20 years. It has exciting potential to expand beyond the existing fans to serve new audiences. Whats interesting about Halo is that it does truly deliver against that dual target of living in the Halo world that fans of the game have been embracing and playing for years, and its also just an epic story and has incredible characters and drama. Thats exactly the kind of premium content that lures audiences to streaming platforms. We believe that it will really continue to propel ParamountPlus forward. With our portfolio of brands and platforms, were able to go both wide and deep—creating huge awareness moments and also hyper-target certain audiences based on demographics and content affinities. For awareness, our streaming, linear, and social platforms have incredible scale and reach—we reach 84% of people in the U.S. across all screens and nearly half of our 18-49 audience is multicultural.1 For targeting, we identified two groups: sci-fi enthusiasts, who over-index with gamers, as a way to identify the core fans of the Halo series, and a general entertainment audience to attract premium drama viewers.  With our portfolio of brands and platforms, were able to go both wide and deep—creating huge awareness moments and also hyper-target certain audiences. Adele Plumail SVP Cross-Company Marketing, Paramount  We worked with all of our networks—including MTV, CBS, Comedy Central, BET, and Paramount Network—to identify programming environments that would attract our target audiences and to plan content that would over-index amongst that sci-fi viewer. We also sought out some higher impact placements in the general entertainment/drama category to really put Halo front and center. Heres a great example of how we leveraged our unique scale—the campaign kicked off with a Halo trailer drop during the AFC Championship game on CBS on Jan. 30, 2022. Forty-eight million people saw the trailer that day. Thats an incredible way to create a runway to launch.  A Launch Day Takeover For the ParamountPlus premiere day on March 24, we planned a total takeover of all Paramount platforms and channels, including a 2-minute roadblock of Halo content. For example, Comedy Central will run a marathon of video game-themed episodes of South Park, a show that definitely delivers on that core target gamer sci-fi fan. The episodes have interstitials, lower thirds, and a superbug pointing to the two minutes of Halo. Were utilizing the broad national exposure of March Madness on CBS as a launch platform for Halo. With a presence that will be felt, almost all available promo units – including announcer reads and in-game lower-third placements are pointing towards Halo content, culminating with a longer look during the Sweet 16 that were roadblocking across the portfolio. CBS local stations will participate in the launch day takeover and are also running a 30 minute Halo behind the scenes special. Were also taking advantage of our talent relationships. We identified Mike The Situation Sorrentino as a Halo superfan, so hes a perfect evangelist to promote the release. Hell introduce the two-minute look within the season finale of Jersey Shore: Family Vacation, which is fantastic synergy. Well also feature talent from the series on Showtimes Desus and Mero and other interview opportunities within Paramount like The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, and within news segments, such as on CBS This Morning. Beyond these linear integrations, we have an additional focus on social plans, including livestream stunts on Twitch with the Wild N Out cast, YouTube collaborations, as well as Pluto TV integrations. Weve also had an extensive external marketing push, which featured a massive drone stunt to promote Halo at SXSW, among many other integrations and partnerships.  Saturating our Platforms for Success Its a year since the launch of the ParamountPlus service. Our campaign to support the ParamountPlus debut was the genesis of so much of our work. We had such great engagement across all of our divisions thanks to everyones willingness to get creative to promote the service across our companys assets—and it was incredibly successful in bringing users to the service. Our Halo campaign builds on some of the insights and tactics from that initial campaign. Weve also learned from other campaigns, such as our recent efforts promoting the Taylorverse, which is all of the content we have coming from creator Taylor Sheridan. Paramount Networks Yellowstone has broken records for its cable success, including being the most-watched cable TV telecast with the season 4 finale. Domenic DiMeglio, CMO of Paramount Digital, and the MTV Entertainment Group marketing team used that success to promote Sheridans ParamountPlus exclusives, 1883 and Mayor of Kingstown. We leveraged different moments from the Sheridan series to funnel audiences, as well. Paramount Network aired the first episode of Mayor of Kingstown, following Yellowstone, and led people to ParamountPlus to catch the second episode. And, it did the same thing a few weeks later with 1883.Saturating all of our platforms with messaging that points to our current priority streaming initiative has proven to be successful. ParamountPlus is a great unifier. It houses our brands and our fan bases from across the portfolio and gives them an opportunity to find more content that they love in the service. In Q4, it was the fastest-growing SVOD service in the U.S., adding more subscribers than any other service last year. Our external marketing strategies combined with our laser-focus on activating campaigns and always-on support across our portfolio for ParamountPlus fuel the success and momentum of the service. Saturating all of our platforms with messaging that points to our current priority streaming initiative has proved to be successful. Creating Pathways for Collaboration When I started in this role less than 2 years ago, my team was three people. Were continuing to grow to meet the evolving focus and priorities of the company, including around streaming and fueling our franchises. Our Chief Brand Officer, Josh Line, created a team that taps the deep expertise of seasoned company veterans balanced with fresh perspectives from beyond Paramount. I previously worked within Paramount at Nickelodeon, Paramount Pictures, Velocity, and Ad Sales, so I understand the dynamics and opportunities that exist across divisions. Now, in this role, I act as a liaison between various arms of the company, leveraging my experience of working in multiple divisions to build pathways for collaboration. We have an incredible portfolio of assets. We have strength around the globe. We have smart and talented people. Our aim in developing this team was to lean into our strengths as a company and work with all of our teams to identify the best opportunities for support. Were here to help drive strategy and keep a unified focus across the company by working very closely with all of the talented multi-disciplinary teams within the divisions. In this case, were all rallying to make Halo a hit.  1Source: Nielsen Media Research. L+3 reach, January 2021 (1228/2020 - 1/31/2021) 1 minute qualifier. O&O + Pluto TV from Comscore Media Metrix, Jan 2021, U.S. only. YouTube/Facebook from Tubular Audience Ratings, custom reach estimates, Jan 2021, U.S. only."
"Paramount";"News Release";"In The Office With... OLIVIER JOLLET ON ENTERTAINING THE PLANET WITH PLUTO TV Olivier Jollet on Entertaining the Planet With Pluto TV NOV. 29, 2021 By Nicole Bitette Our In the Office With ... series, gives ViacomCBS executives the opportunity to reveal a little bit about who they are, how they lead, and what drives them in the day-to-day. Pluto TV is on a mission to entertain the entire planet, tackling one region at a time: the latest is the Nordics—including Norway, Sweden, and Denmark—announced on Nov. 29. Olivier Jollet is the executive in charge of Pluto TV, driving ViacomCBS streaming and mobile businesses internationally as SVP, General Manager for Pluto TV, and head of mobile at ViacomCBS. Hes been leading the European strategy and business development for the service since 2016 when Pluto TV acquired Quazer, an OTT TV-like platform focused on non-fiction programming that Jollet co-founded. During Jollets time at Pluto TV, its user base across the world, including in the USA, has exploded from 5 to 54 million monthly active users. I believed quite early that there was huge potential for a linear business in the streaming world, says Jollet. Pluto TV took inspiration from TV and SVOD and created a new product. Thats whats so innovative. Jollet spoke to the ViacomCBS Newsroom about Pluto TVs international expansion and the fantasy comic hes obsessed with.  Nicole Bitette: Pluto TV is the leading free, ad-supported television service. To what do you attribute its success? Olivier Jollet: Pluto TV was founded by Tom Ryan and Ilya Pozin in 2014 to solve the paradox of choice ultimately. The vision was built on three contrarian principles: free in the age of on-demand, linear in the age of subscription, and ad-supported at a time when everyone was predicting the end of the ad-supported model. The free element has been critical to our expansion. And, the linear approach is really the key differentiator that brought Pluto TV to scale. At the same time, we always tried to have different editorial lines, and thats why users love us. NB: How did you apply the success of Pluto TV in the U.S. to international markets? O.J.: When ViacomCBS acquired Pluto TV in 2019, we were already live in the U.K., Germany, Switzerland, and Austria. Still, it was just the beginning of this incredible adventure, and many people were wondering will it work? I think we have the answer now, and it works beyond our expectations. Europe has many high-quality free-to-air channels compared to the USA market, and the cost-cutting movement is also limited in those countries. But Pluto TV has been able to impose its FAST concept across the old Continent, becoming the first FAST service across Europe in less than three years with more than 500 curated channels, a wide distribution, and fantastic content partners such as BBC, A&E, or Mediawan. We have recently accelerated our expansion during the last two years, launching the service in 2020 in LATAM, followed by Spain, France, Brazil, Italy, and Nordics in 2022. Our secret ingredient? Thematic curated channels created by fans for fans spanning all genres. NB: What does the recent expansion to Italy mean for the service? O.J.: Italy is one of the most important markets in Europe for ad sales. The TV business is still huge there; they have more than 120 free-to-air channels, but at the same time, they are transitioning into the new streaming world. In Italy, there are three key elements: free, linear, and ad sales, so Pluto TV couldnt find a better place to be. We launched Pluto TV in Italy with 40 channels combining great local content and our ViacomCBS library, and, on top of that, we secured a partnership with Sky media that included Pluto TV in their portfolio of brands that they sell for us. In addition, Sky is also our distribution partner for some of our key brands, such as MTV, Comedy Central, and Nickelodeon, and will be our leading partner for ParamountPlus that we will launch in 2022. The good thing is well be able to really levy the ecosystem we are building across free, streaming, and pay. In the Nordics, we will be taking a different approach. We announced on Nov. 29, a groundbreaking partnership with NENT, the leading entertainment group in the Nordics. Were integrating their existing AVOD platform into Pluto TV, building a world-class FAST AVOD service in the Nordics. Combining the power of NENT from a content, ad sales, and marketing point of view with the power of Pluto TV as a world-leading FAST service successfully live in more than 25 markets across International will be a great launch and a different way of tackling a market. This is definitively a model that we want to export outside Nordics.  Thats the beauty of Pluto TV. Its created for local audiences, and in each market, theres a little bit of surprise. Olivier NB: How are you programming Pluto TV to serve the needs of various local markets? O.J.: Our channels are curated differently for every single market based on the watching habits of the audience. We are always trying to match the needs of the local markets with a mix of local and international content. We have already launched more than 700 channels outside of the U.S. The uniqueness of Pluto TV really comes from our curated thematic channels, programmed by our fantastic team of channel editors. Those are the soul of Pluto TV. We love to be different and surprise our users with a unique editorial line, and they are doing it so well. We are proud to be human-curated in a world where everything is starting to be algorithm-driven. The channels are created for fans by fans. In each country, we are building a team of editors with different expertise; some used to work on the linear networks, some were journalists, some are series/movies junkies! NB: What are some of the most popular channels in international markets? O.J.: Difficult to answer as our international markets are so different. Nevertheless, some of the channels work around the world, such as Pluto TV Crime or Drama but also our SpongeBob SquarePants or South Park channels. Our users also love all our binge-watching channels around nostalgic series such as Beverly Hills, Forensic Files, Baywatch, Whos The Boss?, or, Walker, Texas Ranger. What is important is that while channels such Pluto TV Movies or Pluto TV Sci-fi exist around the world, the content is extremely different. Sometimes we dont even understand why a channel is over-performing, but thats the beauty of Pluto TV. Its created for local audiences, and in each market, theres a little bit of surprise. SMALL TALK  NB: How do you describe what you do to someone you meet at a party? A quick one-liner. O.J.: Have you ever heard of Pluto TV? No? Then you will! NB: Whats the best advice youve received? O.J.: You learn a lot by failing. One of my first mentors told me this when I was still young, and it gave me a lot of inspiration in some of the ventures that Ive started, which were not successful. Thats something that helps you to move further and stop thinking about failure as an ending point, but vice-versa as a new starting point. NB: Go-to Pluto TV channel in Germany? O.J.:The MTV Unplugged channel because I used to work in the music industry and worked with some of the Unplugged artists. Our Pluto TV Food channel as well. Im French, and food is a very important topic for French people. NB: What are you currently obsessed with? O.J.:Im reading this fantastic comicCATHARGOwritten by the famous French author Chirstopher Bec. Its very inspiring to read a fantasy comic, and its a good one. Its fantasy, science-fiction, but at the same time, they bring environmental causes and issues with some typically French provocations. Its super addictive. There are 11 books, and Im in the middle of that right now; I cant stop reading."
"Paramount";"News Release";"In The Office With... TANYA GILES ON THE STREAMING FUTURE Tanya Giles MARCH 9, 2022 By Nicole Bitette Photos by David Williams The Chief Programming Officer for Streaming on her path to the executive office and the key to curating content for ParamountPlus and Pluto TV. Our In the Office With ... series, gives Paramount executives the opportunity to reveal a little bit about who they are, how they lead, and what drives them in the day-to-day. Tanya Giles was one of the only adults in the room when a focus group of children saw SpongeBob SquarePants for the first time. Since then, shes utilized her research prowess and instinctual love of content for more than 20 years. Giles is the Chief Programming Officer of Streaming for Paramount, overseeing the programming decisions for ParamountPlus and Pluto TV. Since starting the role in June 2021, shes been focused on creating the team that decides what content gets a greenlight and what franchises are reignited or extended. When it comes to making those content decisions, Giles believes in building a content pipeline thats both deep and wide. We know that title diversity really minimizes churn. If you are a household with more than one profile and you watch more than two shows then youre a high-value subscriber. And that is how our programming strategy is built, says Giles. We really think about the whole household and make sure we have something for everyone. This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity. Nicole Bitette: Tell me a little bit about your career background. What was your first professional role? Tanya Giles: I started at CBS in 1995 in the research department before the first merger and my job was to come in at 7 a.m. and pull the ratings. I took the elevator upstairs to the presidents office and delivered the ratings to his desk. I quickly realized that I was the first person at CBS each day to see the ratings from the night before. That was pretty thrilling and intoxicating. I learned that being in research is really where the business moves. I moved from the analytics side of research at CBS to the other side of research, which was speaking to audiences. Thats when I moved over to Nickelodeon because I had a deep passion for kids television. My first job at Viacom was in the Nickelodeon research department. I like to say that my claim to fame is that I was the researcher who showed children SpongeBob SquarePants for the first time. It was thrilling to see children have deep connections to the content and characters and stories. I knew that there was something powerful to that as well. Theres the power behind the numbers in the business, and how the fans feel about the content you bring to them is why we do what we do. In 2002, I went from the kids side of the business to more of our adult-focused brands. Eventually, I was overseeing research for all of the entertainment brands, which at the time included Comedy Central, TV Land, and Spike (now Paramount Network). Research has always been highly valued in this company and I always had a seat at the table. NB: How did you transition into more programming-focused roles? TG: I was involved in many of the big decision-making conversations around content, how were moving audiences, and how were growing these brands. I was able to really develop my strategic programming skills, including how the shows and the decisions get made. I met enough people in the company where I built a reputation for my executive sensibilities. So, when there was an opportunity to become a General Manager for Comedy Central, I jumped at it. tanya giles Kent Alterman was the president of Comedy Central at the time, and he needed somebody to be his right hand on the business functions—overseeing research, programming, marketing, social, and digital—in the New York office. Once the content was made, it moved its way to our department to determine the best way to deliver it to the fans. NB: How did that shape what youre now doing in streaming? TG: Being in a seat where I was the decision-maker was a big switch. Knowing that the buck stops with me required a whole new muscle. I worked in tandem with programming and marketing, etc., but really understood how those processes work and how those decisions get made on putting together a schedule and what is needed to put together a campaign. Thats what I truly understand from soup to nuts and has helped me become a more holistic executive. When it comes to streaming, in order to run the programming business, I have to be the spoke in the wheel for a lot of our internal studios. Its that central position where Im setting the programming strategy and the content strategy for streaming. tanya giles NB: Can you explain the relationship between Paramounts linear and streaming content pipeline? TG: One of the great advantages of ParamountPlus is that its part of Paramounts fantastic ecosystem. We can promote shows on linear, but we also have tremendous opportunities to partner with the networks or even the shows themselves to launch new content. One example, of course, is Yellowstone. We knew Season 4 was coming back. The fan anticipation for the show was at max highs. We waited to launch Yellowstone when we knew we would have two shows that were also coming from the Taylor Sheridan universe for ParamountPlus, including 1883 and Mayor of Kingstown. Yellowstone came back with huge numbers in the first week and then in the second week, we aired Mayor of Kingstown right after Yellowstone on linear and premiered it on ParamountPlus. So, fans of Yellowstone were exposed to it on Paramount Network with the promise that you could immediately go to ParamountPlus and watch episode two of the new original series. We did the same thing with 1883 a few weeks later in November. Then in December, we followed up withYellowstone episode eight, where there was a flashback to the origins of the Dutton family where audiences saw Tim McGraw and Faith Hill, who are characters in 1883. They could immediately see the premiere of 1883. If they went to the service, then the first two episodes were available. tanya giles We saw that about 30% of the audience who came to ParamountPlus to watch 1883 started with episode two, so we know that that was a huge driver. Weve done that in other ways with Seal Team, which was a great show on CBS, and this season we knew it would be a fantastic addition to the ParamountPlus lineup. We wanted to have a seamless handoff so the fans understood where to find it. Three episodes premiered on CBS where we promoted that it would be moving over to ParamountPlus. Then, in episode four, we made the handoff and it was available on ParamountPlus. The audience followed, which is great to see. We also have huge opportunities for cross-promotion with the NFL. We premiered the Big Nate trailer during the Wild Card game that was on Nickelodeon and debuted the Halo trailer in the AFC championship game. Its truly a competitive advantage, in streaming especially, that we have the enormous power of Paramount to create and promote content. NB: What excites you about the future of ParamountPlus? TG: Were going global. Expanding around the world is truly exciting. So many of our franchises have fans around the world, so to be able to extend franchises for those fans is fantastic. And of course, all the exciting content we have in the pipeline from Halo and Star Trek: Picard to The Fairly OddParents: Fairly Odder and the second season of iCarly. We have amazing in-house studios that are producing this content on behalf of the service and we have created a total household platform where SpongeBob can live alongside Beavis and Butthead and Jean-Luc Picard and James Dutton and Halos Master Chief. One of the great advantages of ParamountPlus is that its part of Paramounts fantastic ecosystem. NB: How is our free ad-supported service Pluto TV resonating with consumers? TG: The future is super bright for Pluto TV. Our three-pronged streaming strategy means theres something for every consumer. With Pluto TV, its ease of use. If you just want to just drop in, its free. Its a lean-back experience providing consumers with amazing content that our programming team has curated. Its a fantastic value proposition to consumers. NB: Zooming out to the streaming ecosystem overall, what makes a service a must-have from a consumer point of view? TG: We know that title diversity really minimizes churn. If you are a household with more than one profile and you watch more than two shows then youre a high-value subscriber. And that is how our programming strategy is built. We really think about the whole household and make sure we have something for everyone. We have the most diverse content of any streaming service with breaking news, live sports, and a mountain of entertainment. Thats a must-have to me. Creating a platform where SpongeBob can live alongside Beavis and Butthead and Jean-Luc Picard and James Dutton and Halos Master Chief is exciting. NB: In November, ParamountPlus reported its best week ever in terms of viewership. How is your team planning to keep up that momentum? TG: Well the great news is that we have. December was fantastic. January broke the record as our most-watched month and March, which marks the services one-year anniversary, is going to be amazing. Star Trek: Picard season two premiered last week and on March 24th we have the highly anticipated premiere of Halo, which will be followed by the debut of The Fairly OddParents: Fairly Odder on March 31. Then, in the second quarter, we have the limited series The Offer, which is about the story behind the making of The Godfather movie, which was almost not made. Well have the Godfather movie collection on the service at the same time for a total fan experience. Its also not just about the story of the Godfather and how that movie was made, but the story of Paramount as a studio at that time. There are so many Easter eggs of movies that are referenced in it and weve acquired many of those titles or brought them over from the Paramount library to feature in the service. So you can watch The Offer and say, Oh, I forgot about Love Story. And then go watch Love Story. NB: Youve been within the Paramount family for your entire career. What makes you stay? TG: The people and the relationships are truly special. Theres something about this company and our brands that attract very passionate and hardworking people and its alchemy is something that you just dont find in other places. SMALL TALK If you werent in this field, what would you do for a living? TG: I used to memorize the TV guides schedules when I was six years old and I was a TV major in college. I have a hard time imagining a different path but would want to be in a field that also helps people laugh, escape, and connect with others. Whats the best advice youve ever received? TG: Know your brand and grow your brand. Know what your strengths are and what you bring to the table and ALWAYS take a seat at the table. For me, I became known as a true fan of TV. I knew the landscape well and I became a fan of fans and really speaking for them and representing what I know they wanted from our storylines and our characters. That was my brand and it became valuable. The other advice is to always be ready for the next opportunity. To constantly be aware of the business and the landscape and the challenge to constantly be thinking. If you stay ready, you dont have to get ready. What are you currently obsessed with? TG: Im a huge Buffalo Bills fan. My heart was broken during the AFC playoffs. I was obsessed and put all of my energy toward the Buffalo Bills playoff run. Im also really obsessed with my family and my children. My son is starting his college search and my other son is navigating middle school. Helping them is my focus. Who is your most recent hire and what qualities do you look for in an employee? TG: My most recent hire is Michael Chang, who started as EVP of Content Planning and Strategy. He helps us with evaluating our green lights, getting the most of the content we have, and creating a content mix to really be successful and grow. Its a function he built at Hulu, where he was most recently. Where he stood out is his great functional knowledge and his experience, but also he has just a passion for what were doing. He wants to be with us building it from the ground up. Hes also just a fun and amazing guy and I knew he would love it here."
"Paramount";"News Release";"Streaming On THE CONTENT THATS DRIVING SPORTS FANS TO ParamountPlus NOV. 19, 2021 By Nicole Bitette The real winning formula here is combining this great sports portfolio with the broad-based entertainment selection of content all in one service. Ultimately, this makes ParamountPlus a streaming service that appeals to the whole household. The return of the NFL season and the UEFA Champions League were major subscriber-drivers to ParamountPlus this fall, illustrating that ViacomCBS recent deals with some of the biggest sports leagues are key to the companys streaming success. The reason that we know that people will want to subscribe to us and how were different is that we combine our linear-first sports content with the streaming-first sports content, says Jeff Gerttula, EVP and GM of CBS sports digital. According to Gerttula, sports are one of the three differentiators to ParamountPlus, which boasts live sports, breaking news, and a mountain of entertainment as a product offering. In an interview from the ViacomCBS video series Streaming On, Gerttula shares with host Dometi Pongo what games and leagues are bringing subscribers to ParamountPlus. Plus, he reveals the big sports moments to look forward to this year. Below is a condensed version of the interview. Dometi Pongo: What have been some of the biggest drivers to ParamountPlus this season? Jeff Gerttula: Weve been really pleased with how sports have been performing this year, particularly heading into a big fall. Weve seen a lot of growth in engagement in our streaming services, particularly across football and soccer. The NFL season started with a bang. Its done really well on linear and its doing really well on streaming, too, and its been the top acquisition driver for ParamountPlus subscriptions through the year. Subscribers can watch NFL on CBS in their local markets on ParamountPlus and through the first 10 weeks of the NFL season, weve seen significant growth, double-digit growth in all viewers in minutes. On the soccer side, UEFA Champions League has been at the forefront of our success. Weve had a really good start. The first eight match days have been the biggest eight days of soccer on the service yet. Weve got great momentum and then weve got CONCACAF Mens World Cup qualifiers that features the U.S. mens national team. Theyre coming into their own, fans are interested. Its delivered strong results for us, so were excited for what the future holds. Storytelling is also a critical piece... We tell really interesting stories around players, around teams, around the kind of moments that we think fans will really want to watch. Jeff Gerttula EVP and GM, CBS Sports Digital DP: Can you break down the NFLs deal and what role the NFL plays in the Paramount Plus sports offering? What makes it unique on ParamountPlus? JG: The NFL is, first and foremost, a critical pillar to our broader sports programming across linear and digital, which is massive. Fans can watch live NFL on CBS Local Market Games on Sunday afternoons within ParamountPlus. In addition to that, now ParamountPlus features Inside the NFL, which is in its 45th season. Thats another exclusive original piece of programming that gives you behind-the-scenes, micd up players. As well, the partnership that weve developed between CBS Sports and Nickelodeon really underscores the power of ViacomCBS and how we can bring our brands together to expand audiences. This year, were going to have NFL Slime Time, which is an all new NFL half-hour weekly series on Nickelodeon. Its available on ParamountPlus the following day. DP: Why is the investment in soccer so important to the growth of the platform, in the U.S. and internationally? JG: We started our adventure into international soccer coverage just over a year ago, and we did it with the belief that the soccer audience being young, diverse, and super passionate was a perfect fit for our streaming strategy. The strategy to acquire that audience has been focused on building out a comprehensive package with a range of competitions—big and small, domestic and international, mens and womens—that we assemble the pieces to maximize engagement across months. The collection of assets that we have runs 12 months, afternoons, evenings, weekdays, and weekends with the goal of making our soccer product a must-have service for soccer fans year-round. DP: Can you talk about why ParamountPlus has so many different deals with multiple leagues and conferences? JG: Its a mix of making sure that were thinking about it from a calendar perspective—looking at months and different slots during the week that we want to have matches—but then also reaching different audiences knowing that, for example, the soccer audience is not a homogenous group. The beauty of the portfolio is that there are always big things around the corner. DP: What are some of the other reasons that consumers want to stream ParamountPlus instead of—or in addition to—other platforms out there? JG: The reason that we know that people will want to subscribe to us and how were different is that we combine our linear first sports content with the streaming first sports content. That lets us get the best of the best. And then were also coupling that with streaming-first acquisitions on the soccer side as you wait for Champions League, Serie A, Concacaf, NWSL, which are more specific to streaming. Then, you build the additional kind of non-live sports content like Inside the NFL and free streaming channels like CBS Sports HQ. The formula for success includes all of that, put it into one service that bundles entertainment products. Storytelling is also a critical piece. We deliver live matches, but we also have great storytelling. We tell really interesting stories around players, around teams, around the kind of moments that we think fans will really want to watch. DP: What are some lessons from the last year that may inform the sports programming strategy moving forward? JG: Every time you have an idea and you see it in practice, you learn from it, you learn what requires and what retains. Youre going to have things that exceed expectations, things that come in under your expectations. But everything is a step towards getting smarter, towards better understanding your audience, towards better understanding. We think about the brand and what the expectations are for that audience. DP: What are some of those big events that consumers can look forward to in the next few months? JG: Weve got a nice Thanksgiving Day game with the Las Vegas Raiders against the Dallas Cowboys. Lets say an old school classic right there. Well have five playoff games on CBS for the NFL. Its two wild card games, and one of those wild card games is going to simulcast on Nickelodeon. We will have playoff games up to the AFC Championship Game. Then in soccer, we have the remainder of the Champions League season. Early results have been great. Theyre huge matchups. It never stops, keeps going. And the beauty of the portfolio is that there are always big things around the corner."
"Paramount";"News Release";"THE EVOLUTION OF VIACOMCBS MULTICULTURAL MARKETING CAPABILITIES OCT 19, 2021 Multicultural marketing is no longer a nice to have—its a necessity. Debbie King is Senior Vice President and Head of Marketing Communications and Culture at Velocity, ViacomCBSs in-house, full-service marketing and branded content studio. In todays climate, brands understand that when it comes to multicultural marketing, its not a nice to have anymore—its a necessity. This is especially true considering this past year where businesses loudly voiced their support against racial injustice in the wake of George Floyds murder. When it comes to marketing across multicultural audiences such as Black, LatinX, and Asian American Pacific Islanders, its imperative to target these segments authentically, and thats what is playing out across the industry today. In order to authentically connect brands to BIPOC audiences, for the first time, weve pulled together all of our resources across the house to make a ViacomCBS offering for our partners—a company-wide multicultural capability. The initiative came to life in Velocity, ViacomCBSs branded content studio, with the intention of focusing our efforts solely on the branded content we were creating. As this evolved, we realized that there was a bigger opportunity to leverage this capability across the house. We first connected with our colleagues at BET and leveraged their long history of working on multicultural partnerships to begin building a fuller program. We pulled together a task force across our ad sales teams—including BET, digital, convergent, broadcast, and CBS—to get everyone aligned on the opportunities we could offer when we strategize how we can continue to authentically deliver for our clients. Everything we do within our multicultural capability and our offerings rolls up into four buckets: Strategic alignment with our programming, the ability to authentically reach diverse audiences, cultural insights that both inform our creative development and help drive business decisions, and our expertise in creating purposeful creative that allows brands to seamlessly and authentically connect with their target audiences. Breaking Down Silos We made the decision when we started this work back in February 2020 that we would incorporate multicultural marketing across the full team. We wanted everyone to attain knowledge about diverse communities; to be armed with insights to be used in order to make better creative. Thats why it took over a year to put this together. We wanted to ensure that in bringing this to the market, our efforts were authentic. Authenticity is the key to our approach in building out this multicultural capability and our creative, as is ensuring that our partners know that its not only a current initiative, but will be an ongoing priority. This is the future of marketing. Our Creative Strategy and Cultural Intelligence team created the In America series across Black, LatinX, and Asian American audiences, to inform what drives, motivates, and concerns these demographics. Our full team went through these sessions to get an understanding of the experiences of not only our target audiences, but also of each other. In the past year, weve taken this series of presentations to more than 60 clients, including brand-direct, agencies, and larger holding companies. Since many of our clients consider this new territory, our thought leadership is one way for us to guide them through our partnership. D king I BELIEVE IF WERE DOING THIS RIGHT, WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO DRIVE STRONGER, MORE MEANINGFUL CONNECTIONS BETWEEN OUR CLIENTS AND THESE IMPORTANT AUDIENCES. Throughout the campaign process, we ensure that our team members reflect the target audience. We also have a roster of over 250 partners that are vetted to make sure that they, too, have diverse perspectives. The result has been truly top notch creative, and programs that have positively impacted and resonated across diverse communities. For example, last year for the VMAs, Toyota came to us with the ask of celebrating the power of music in bringing people together. We created the VMAs first-ever all-Spanish language branded content embedded within the show, where eight culturally diverse New York City musicians performed an original recording of the global mega-hit Mi Gente, a song whose lyrical content and commercial success prove musics ability to transcend borders and race. That was a very successful program, from our standpoint and from the clients. A Trusted Leader in DE&I At ViacomCBS, our legacy is rooted in social impact. Weve taken action to advocate for diverse communities and amplify diverse voices within our organization and outside of it by educating our employees, viewers, and partners through impactful initiatives like Content for Change. Launched by BET in June 2020, Content for Change recently expanded as a cross-ViacomCBS initiative that harnesses the power of our content to counter racism, bias, stereotypes and hate through programming. As a company, weve used the power of our brands to inspire change and action against systemic racism and social injustice through initiatives like Nick Stands, where we enlighten kids and their families about the issues of oppression and systemic racism, utilizing outlets such as Nick News to educate and empower kids to speak up on issues related to equality. Weve also created content that champions diverse stories, ensuring that diversity is represented not only on camera, but by those behind it. For example, theres CBS Writing Mentor Program and MTV Entertainment Groups First Time Directors Program geared towards helping diverse creatives launch their careers in the industry. Within Velocity, were part of the pilot program for Content for Change Academy, an initiative focused on giving diverse candidates an opportunity to work within a creative or production department, through a three-month apprenticeship. This is in partnership with Reel Works, a leading youth organization and long-standing partner of ViacomCBS, and while the apprenticeship lasts for a period of time, the end goal is to pave the way for securing full time roles within ViacomCBS. Our clients recognize our expertise in the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I) space, and as such, lean on us to help them navigate engaging with—and connecting to—diverse audiences in a way thats authentic and impactful, not performative. We continue to fine-tune our approach in the multicultural marketing space, to better suit our partners needs. Ultimately, were trying to create broader awareness not only for our clients, but also internally as an organization. We want to overcome barriers and put a stake in the ground to become an anti-racist culture. We recognize its a long-term effort; itll take a while for us to get there. But its a goal that we have to keep working towards. I believe if were doing this right, we have the ability to drive stronger, more meaningful connections between our clients and these important audiences."
"Paramount";"News Release";"Content for Change THE VIACOMCBS PROGRAM CREATING NONTRADITIONAL PATHS FOR CAREER EXPERIENCE DEC. 1, 2021 By Nicole Bitette Programs like these pick me up and give me hope, says Marvin Hernandez, a member of the inaugural Content for Change Academy. Many of the participants in ViacomCBS new Content for Change Academy initiative didnt graduate from college or take the so-called traditional route to obtaining a job or internship. The longstanding process of going to college to land that first gig has caused systemic barriers that leave behind many diverse storytellers. ViacomCBS teamed up with Reel Works and its MediaMKRS workforce development program—which aims to build a talent pool that reflects the diversity of New York City by matching young professionals with job training opportunities across media organizations, including ViacomCBS—for its Content for Change Academy. The program provides entry-level creative and production roles to young professionals, without requiring enrollment or graduation from a traditional college or university, with the ultimate goal of full-time employment following the three month program. Marvin Hernandez, one of seven members of the inaugural Content for Change Academy, attended college briefly after graduating high school and quickly decided it wasnt for him. Instead, he looked to alternative programs that peaked his interest in video editing and the entertainment industry. He landed at Reel Works, a Brooklyn-based organization that provides emerging storytellers in underserved communities with mentorship for careers in media. Im going the untraditional route, says Hernandez, who was placed on the production team for the CBS series Evil as part of the Content for Change Academy program. I felt like I would hit a dead end a lot of the time, but programs like these pick me up and give me hope. Its such a great learning opportunity where I can really get my foot in the door. The program is part of ViacomCBS company-wide Content for Change initiative that seeks to apply scientific research, rigor, and data to transform the entire creative ecosystem across three pillars – 1) the content the company produces 2) the creative supply chain that powers it and 3) the culture that underpins everything ViacomCBS does. It is critical to open up nontraditional pathways and evolve our early career hiring models to further break down the systemic barriers that impact the representation of marginalized communities in our industry, says Crystal Barnes, SVP, corporate social responsibility and environmental, social and governance at ViacomCBS. Through the Content for Change Academy, we are building on ViacomCBS legacy of diversifying representation to write the next chapter of inclusive storytelling in the entertainment industry. Hernandez, along with Tenia Hardy, Anfernee Villaroel, Dominick Berry, Brianna Cousins, Shamar Darden, and Georgia-Rae Lyken were all placed in various roles throughout ViacomCBS, including on the Velocity team, Paramount Network, CBS Sports, and BET. The ViacomCBS Newsroom spoke to a few of the inaugural members during their first few weeks on the job to see how the experience was going. Tenia Hardy - BET Brand Creative With Content for Change, theres a lot of transparency upfront. It feels like an opportunity to actually be a part of something. Im getting initiated into the heart of whats going on with BET and with Content for Change. And it feels like ViacomCBS is really trying to create something new. Tenia Hardy The day-to-day: I support the production assistants, creative director, and project management team by pulling clips for promos, searching for stock music, and creating as well as sharing viewable links of archive videos/movies. Im creating my own promo as an exercise and Im being coached on how to move through each phase of bringing an idea from a thought to fruition. What Ive learned so far: I have gotten to speak to many different people in various departments in BET. Theyve shared their experiences in the TV industry and given me free game aka insight on how to move around in the TV/Film world. In addition to that, Ive been able to learn useful programs and Ive been learning skills that will make me a smarter businesswoman and creative content-maker. What this experience means to me: Being a part of Content for Change Academy has gifted me with clarity on how I want to grow in my career. I now have access to people that want to help me and see me succeed which feels fantastic because through the pandemic Ive been missing the feeling of community. Highlights: Being able to hear peoples stories on how they started and what theyve done to get where they are is my favorite part of the program. I love knowing about peoples backgrounds and their experiences because it builds up my belief of what I can make happen in my own life. Marvin Hernandez - Production on CBS Studios Evil This program feels really unique because theyre encouraging us to get hired. This is the pilot program, so hopefully they can continue doing this because its really helping the community out a lot. Marvin Hernandez The day-to-day: We have a to-do list that has a list of tasks that have to be completed in order of priority. Ive also been assisting the production coordinator with spreadsheets, booking flights, etc. What Ive learned so far: Within these first few weeks alone I feel like I learned a ton, theres so much information being thrown around its hard to keep up with it! Ive been to their stages where the sets are being constructed and I was able to hear the conversations the producers were having with the construction crews. I have a much better understanding of the producers role in productions! Highlight: Seeing the main characters (Kristen) room being built at one of the stages! Anfernee Villaroel - Nick Jr.s Blaze and The Monster Machines Its like a childhood wish for fulfillment come true. Anfernee Villaroel The day-to-day: I work as a trainee mostly focusing on helping the audio manager and editing. Ive beenworking with the Nick team for several weeks now. Im fairly independent so I create my own weekly schedule on what meetings I want to shadow and who on the team I would like to interview. In between that, and receiving tasks from someone on the team, I keep fairly busy. What this experience means to me: I see this program as a cornerstone in my growth to becoming an industry professional. Highlights: Sitting in on the voice-over sessions and watching the actors play their characters has been a real treat. One last thought: This is a very unique experience. I cant say Ive ever been incorporated so thoroughly and quickly into the behind the scenes. Its like a childhood wish for fulfillment come true."
"Paramount";"News Release";"VIACOMCBS UNVEILS NEW COMPANY NAME, GLOBAL CONTENT SLATE AND INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION PLANS FOR ParamountPlus AT INVESTOR EVENT FEB 15, 2022 By ViacomCBS Staff NEW YORK, Feb. 15, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- ViacomCBS today announced that the global media company will become Paramount Global (referred to as Paramount), effective February 16, bringing together its leading portfolio of premium entertainment properties under a new parent company name. ViacomCBS today announced that the global media company will become Paramount Global (referred to as Paramount), effective February 16, bringing together its leading portfolio of premium entertainment properties under a new parent company name. Paramount is an idea: A promise to be the best, said Shari Redstone, Non-Executive Chair of the companys Board of Directors. That promise has always been at the center of what we aspired to build as the steward of more than a century of cinematic excellence, and with businesses and brands that have defined and redefined entertainment for generation after generation. We have made enormous progress, and I have never been more excited about the future of this company. Paramounts iconic peak represents a rich history for our company as pioneers in the Golden Age of Hollywood. Today, as we embrace the Paramount name, we are pioneers of an exciting new future, said Bob Bakish, President and Chief Executive Officer. The companys shares will trade on the Nasdaq stock exchange as PARAA (Class A common), PARA (Class B common) and PARAP (Preferred Stock), beginning with trading on February 17, 2022, at 9:30 a.m. ET. In addition to the name change, the company detailed plans to accelerate the global momentum behind ParamountPlus, unveiling new content, enhanced product offerings and continued international expansion at its investor event. We see a huge global opportunity in streaming, a much larger potential market than can be captured by linear TV and film alone, continued Bakish. Were excited about our ability to not just compete, but thrive, creating significant value for both consumers and shareholders. How? Because were broader in four key areas: our diverse content, streaming model, mix of platforms and global reach. As we look forward, the size of the opportunity we see is matched only by our ambition to seize it. *** BROAD CONTENT OFFERING Todays event demonstrated the global power of fan-favorite IP with an expansive slate of exciting programming announcements. ParamountPlus will continue to deliver the most diverse content offering in streaming across every genre at scale, including beloved franchise extensions and all-new buzzworthy originals spanning must-see movies, scripted dramas, unscripted reality TV, comedy, kids and family, sports, news, specials and events to super-serve the entire household. On ParamountPlus, we have something for everyone, said Tanya Giles, Chief Programming Officer, Streaming. We are taking our broad content offering and deepening it with more content in key categories, building on our treasure trove of IP to create lasting, hit franchises. Movies, Kids and Family The best of the big screen keeps coming to ParamountPlus. The company announced that starting with 2024 film releases, ParamountPlus will become the streaming home for all new Paramount Pictures movies in the U.S. following their theatrical runs. New blockbuster franchise expansions also unveiled today include: A QUIET PLACE – A Quiet Place Part III from John Krasinski, is confirmed for theatrical debut in 2025. As previously announced, the next installment of A Quiet Place from director Michael Sarnoski, based on an original idea from Krasinski, is set for release on September 22, 2023. SONIC THE HEDGEHOG – the first-ever original live-action Sonic series, featuring the character Knuckles, voiced by Idris Elba, is in development to debut on ParamountPlus, setting up the third film installment in the flagship franchise. SPONGEBOB SQUAREPANTS UNIVERSE – a further expansion of the SpongeBob universe is coming exclusively to ParamountPlus with three brand-new movies based on the shows original characters, with the first dropping in 2023. In addition, a fourth SpongeBob release from Nickelodeon Animation is currently in development for theatrical release. STAR TREK – the next theatrical film, with Matt Shakman directing and J.J. Abrams producing, will feature the original cast and new characters. TEEN WOLF – the first-ever original production from MTV Entertainment Studios and MGMs Orion Television, ParamountPlus will reunite the original Teen Wolf cast for an exclusive full-length movie. Tyler Posey, Holland Roden, Shelley Hennig and Crystal Reed are set to reprise their iconic roles alongside Orny Adams, Linden Ashby, JR Bourne, Seth Gilliam, Colton Haynes, Ryan Kelley, Melissa Ponzio and Dylan Sprayberry. Additional names to be announced. TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES – a new era of TMNT-mania takes over in 2023 with a new animated take on the Turtles coming to theaters, produced by Point Grey Pictures Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg and directed by Jeff Rowe. Nickelodeon Animation will fast follow that film with a series of exclusive movies for ParamountPlus beginning in 2023, each centering on one of the propertys storied villains in never-before-told tales. TRANSFORMERS – the next chapter begins with Transformers: Rise of the Beasts in 2023, where director Steven Caple Jr. and star Anthony Ramos, will lead the first of three film installments of the iconic Hasbro property. Additionally, the previously announced Untitled Animated Transformers film, a Paramount/eOne co-production with Josh Cooley attached to direct, will debut in theaters on July 19, 2024. Other Kids and Family content announcements included updates to animated preschool favorites: Blues Big City Adventure – the now-announced animation/live-action hybrid title to this brand-new Blues Clues & You! movie from Nickelodeon Animation is set to premiere later this year and follows host Josh and Blue as they head to New York City, with the help of Steve and Joe, to audition for a big Broadway musical. Dora the Explorer – the preschool return of the groundbreaking Latina heroine in an all-new CG-animated series produced by Nickelodeon Animation, and featuring the beloved characters, plus key modernization to the storytelling, debuts in 2023. Additionally, an update in Kids and Family live-action programming included: Dora the Explorer – in addition to the characters animated preschool return, now in development from Nickelodeon is the first-ever live-action Dora the Explorer series, inspired by the tone of Paramount Pictures 2019 Dora and the Lost City of Gold theatrical release, with this new version for ParamountPlus targeting the tween demo. Adult Animation and Global Unscripted ParamountPlus doubles down on adult animation with new takes and news on two of the most successful and well-known IP in the history of the genre: BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD – the duo is back and stupider than ever in an all-new series premiering across ParamountPlus globally. Alongside this fresh take, the full 200+ episode Beavis and Butt-Head library and previously announced new film, Beavis and Butt-Head do the Universe, will also arrive on the service. SOUTH PARK – the TV series will arrive on ParamountPlus internationally as the exclusive SVOD home later this year with over 300 episodes. Additionally, South Park will begin rolling out on ParamountPlus globally as the new exclusive SVOD home starting with Season 27 in 2024, and the full library is headed to ParamountPlus U.S. in 2025. A fresh slate of global unscripted series, expanding industry-defining franchises, include: All Star Shore – a competition docu-series that will feature 14 of reality TVs most iconic stars from around the world and televisions biggest series – including Jersey Shore Family Vacation, Love is Blind, RuPauls Drag Race, Geordie Shore, Acapulco Shore, Bachelor in Paradise and more – as they come together for an epic vacation at the ultimate Shore house in Gran Canaria, Spain, to battle it out for the grand prize and global bragging rights. Ink Master – the hit tattoo competition makes its premiere on ParamountPlus in markets around the world with all-new episodes later this year. Featuring some of the nations top tattoo artists battling it out in permanent ink for $250,000 and the prized title of Ink Master, the competitors will test their technical skills and on-the-spot creativity in challenges unlike ever before. The Challenge: War of the Worlds – winners from four new Challenge series The Challenge: CBS (working title), The Challenge: Argentina, The Challenge: Australia and The Challenge: U.K. will advance to the first-ever globally connected tournament, The Challenge: War of the Worlds, and battle for the title of Challenge World Champion. The Real World Homecoming: New Orleans – the third installment of the hit original unscripted series will reunite original New Orleans cast members David Tokyo Broom, Melissa Howard, Jamie Murray, Danny Roberts, Matt Smith, Julie Stoffer and Kelley Wolf in The Big Easy. In addition, the original season of The Real World: New Orleans will be available to stream on ParamountPlus beginning in April. In addition to these all-new titles, seven upcoming iterations from THE SHORE franchise will launch on ParamountPlus in territories around the globe, including Argentina Shore, Colombia Shore and Australian Shore, with more cities to be announced. And, the following top-performing reality series have been renewed for ParamountPlus: Queen of the Universe, RuPauls Drag Race All Stars and The Challenge: All Stars. Internationally, global phenomenons Acapulco Shore, Geordie Shore: Return of the OGs and Rio Shore have also been renewed. Global Scripted The Taylor Sheridan universe continues to expand with new chapters of the Dutton family drama with a new original from the Yellowstone co-creator announced today: 1932 – the next chapter of the Yellowstone origin story is ordered. Produced by MTV Entertainment Studios and 101 Studios, 1932 will follow a new generation of Duttons during the time of western expansion, Prohibition and the Great Depression. Additionally, casting and production updates were included for the following highly anticipated series: Land Man – Academy Award winner Billy Bob Thornton has been tapped to lead the upcoming series as a crisis manager for an oil company. Land Man will be executive produced by Taylor Sheridan and David C. Glasser, Ron Burkle, Bob Yari, David Hutkin and Geyer Kosinski. The series will also be executive produced by Dan Friedkin, Jason Hoch, Scott Brown, and Megan Creydt. Lioness – Zoe Saldaña will play Joe, a strong-willed, hard-nosed, station chief of the CIAs Lioness Program, and the show will be executive produced by Taylor Sheridan, David C. Glasser, Ron Burkle, Bob Yari and David Hutkin. Tom Brady will also serve as executive producer and showrunner. Nicole Kidman, with her production company Blossom Films, Zoe Saldaña, Geyer Kosinski, and Jill Wagner are also set to executive produce. Tulsa King – previously announced and starring Sylvester Stallone, production begins March 2022 and the series will premiere this Fall. New expansions of the most popular prime-time entertainment include: NCIS: Sydney – a new original series from one of the biggest and most successful global franchises. The series, which is slated for 2023, will feature local stories with Australian actors and producers, and will be filmed in one of the worlds most scenic harbor cities. Shane Brennan, the Aussie creator of NCIS: Los Angeles, is attached. SEAL TEAM MOVIE – CBS will also expand the storytelling universe for the hit ParamountPlus drama SEAL Team, producing a stand-alone movie for the streaming service. Upcoming international hits in the making include: A Gentleman in Moscow (UK) – based on the best-selling novel by Amor Towles, this drama series tells the story of Count Rostov who, in 1922, finds himself stuck in Moscow and on the wrong side of history. The Communist Party agrees to let him live but he is never allowed to set foot outside the Metropole Hotel until the day he dies. Co-produced by ViacomCBS International Studios (VIS) and eOne. Sexy Beast (UK) – the prequel series, based on the hit cult classic film of the same name, begins with Gal Dove and Don Logan just as they descend into the seductive madness of the London criminal world during the vibrant and volatile 1990s. At its core, this is a love story between two men -- à la Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. In association with VIS, produced by Chapter One, with showrunner Michael Caleo (The Sopranos). Simon Becketts The Chemistry of Death (Germany) – a thrilling, psychological crime series based on Simon Becketts bestselling novels following forensic anthropologist Dr. David Hunter. Written by BAFTA-winning screenwriter Sukey Venables Fisher (Electricity, Unconditional) and directed by Richard R. Clark (War of the Worlds, Versailles, Outlander), the series will be shot in the UK. Producing partners are Nadcon Film and Cuba Pictures, in association with VIS. Yonder (South Korea) – set in 2032, Yonder is an unknown space designed for the dead to be able to live on by uploading memories of their lifetime from their brain. The story unfolds as a man receives a message from his deceased wife, inviting him to the unknown space, Yonder. The drama/science-fiction series raises questions about life and death and what it means to have eternal happiness as humanity comes face to face with a world created by advancements in science technology. Presented by TVING (CJ ENMs streaming platform) and ViacomCBS, produced by Doodoong Pictures and CJ ENM, directed by Lee Joon-ik. These new titles join a growing roster of previously announced and highly-anticipated scripted series, including: Fatal Attraction, Grease: Rise of the Pink Ladies, Rabbit Hole and The Offer. Additionally, Season 2 renewals for Halo, and international hits Cecilia and Los Enviados (The Envoys) were announced. Season 2 of Super Pumped and Season 7 of Billions for SHOWTIME were also ordered. *** GLOBAL EXPANSION ViacomCBS will continue the global expansion of ParamountPlus in 2022. The company announced today that ParamountPlus will make its debut in France as an exclusive bundle with CANAL+ Group, giving subscribers immediate access to ParamountPlus through the countrys largest provider. ParamountPlus will also be available on an a la carte and direct-to-consumer basis in the French market. Were continuing to leverage our global footprint and long-standing relationships to expand ParamountPlus into new markets with enormous potential quickly and economically, said Tom Ryan, President and CEO, Streaming. With ParamountPlus and SkyShowtime, the company will have streaming services available in more than 60 markets across the UK, Latin America, Canada, Australia, South Korea, the Caribbean and all major markets in Europe by the end of this year. In 2023, the company will look to Asia, Africa and the Middle East, building on ParamountPluss strong momentum to grow its presence in every region of the world. *** NEW ParamountPlus AND SHOWTIME INTEGRATED OFFERING ParamountPlus subscribers will soon be able to enjoy SHOWTIME in a new integrated offering that pairs together both services in an unrivaled streaming collection of live and on-demand entertainment with critically acclaimed and boundary-pushing programming in a single user experience. Starting this summer in the U.S., ParamountPlus subscribers will be able to upgrade their subscription to a bundle that includes the SHOWTIME service through two plans, providing a huge range of content at an incredible value: $11.99 for the ParamountPlus Essential tier and SHOWTIME $14.99 for the ParamountPlus Premium tier and SHOWTIME SHOWTIME will also remain available as a standalone premium OTT subscription service and through various third-party streaming platforms. *** CONTINUED MOMENTUM ParamountPlus has exceeded the companys goals since its launch, and ahead of schedule, as the key driver of ViacomCBS overall streaming growth. The company delivered more than 56 million total global streaming subscribers and 84% revenue growth in the direct-to-consumer segment in 2021. As a result of its streaming momentum and incremental investments, the company is raising its global streaming subscriber goal from 65-75 million global streaming subscribers to more than 100 million subscribers by year-end 2024. The company is also raising its 2024 DTC revenue goal from $6 billion to $9 billion. In just one year, ParamountPlus has outperformed all expectations, said Naveen Chopra, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. Our powerful content, marketing and distribution engines drove explosive growth as further proof of our ability to establish a sustainable, large scale streaming business with a differentiated global playbook. *** For more information and a replay of the investor event, visit ir.viacomcbs.com/investorevent. *Click here for image assets *Head to @ViacomCBS on Twitter to see all of todays announcements"
"Paramount";"News Release";"Streaming On WERE GIVING SUPERFANS MORE OF WHAT THEY LOVE ON ParamountPlus FEB. 22, 2022 By Nicole Bitette Nina L. Diaz, CCO of unscripted entertainment and adult animation at ParamountPlus discusses the reality and animated content driving fans to the streaming platform. MTV invented the reality genre back in 1992 with the premiere of The Real World. Since then, the MTV Entertainment Group has been churning out hits-turned franchises like the Shores, The Challenge and RuPauls Drag Race. Now, in the age of streaming, the reality series are filling the unscripted library on ParamountPlus. Nina L. Diaz, chief creative officer for unscripted entertainment and adult animation at ParamountPlus and CCO and president of content for MTV Entertainment Group, leads the teams behind that unscripted pipeline. She also heads up the adult animation group, which is behind the expansion of the South Park universe on ParamountPlus and the return of Beavis and Butt-head. Within the last year, weve delivered more hits than ever—and weve been able to take that from linear to streaming, and now global, says Diaz. In an interview from the Paramount video series Streaming On, Diaz discusses how unscripted and animated content differentiates the ParamountPlus content library, and builds upon Paramounts years of success in those genres. Below is a condensed version of her chat with Streaming On host Dometi Pongo. Dometi Pongo: How does your work in streaming mirror what Paramount is doing on linear in terms of creating compelling content? Nina L. Diaz: Were fortunate enough at Paramount to have a treasure trove of unscripted hits which gives us a leg up to fuel ParamountPlus. Were giving reality superfans even more of what they love. DP: Why is reality TV such an important genre for ParamountPlus? ND: Reality TV is one of the most consumed genres in the world and were all seeing the rise of it on streaming. Paramount continues to be in the top 10 of most-consumed reality TV on cable and some of the top mentioned series on social media. So, that gives us a huge advantage to supercharge those franchises and bring fans into those plots and series they already know and love like The Real World, The Challenge, RuPauls Drag Race, the Shores, and so much more. The stories on reality TV are some of the most authentic that youre going to get. They give you a glimpse into other peoples lives and cultures and can transport you to places you havent been. DP: How does MTV help Paramount when it comes to churning out reality content for ParamountPlus? ND: I dont think theres a brand better poised to lead unscripted content in the streaming space than MTV. Were home to The Real World all the way to the Jersey Shore. It essentially birthed the reality genre with The Real World and still finds success with shows like The Challenge: All Stars and new franchises like Queens of the Universe, which dovetails off the phenomenal success and popularity of RuPauls Drag Race. It all puts MTV Entertainment and ParamountPlus in a great position in the streaming space because its all about hits. The stories on reality TV are some of the most authentic that youre going to get. They give you a glimpse into other peoples lives and cultures and can transport you to places you havent been. Nina L. Diaz CCO for unscripted entertainment and adult animation at ParamountPlus and CCO and president of content for MTV Entertainment Group DP: How are you using your background in unscripted to help shape how youre thinking about the content you create for ParamountPlus? ND: I actually started my career in news—pre-reality TV bubble—and I was lucky enough to come to MTV and be a part of creating and launching reality hits like Cribs and My Super Sweet 16 and then Bravos The Real Housewives of New Jersey. This is what I love to do and I actually consume unscripted. Its about amplifying whats happening in culture and telling stories that havent been told before. On the ParamountPlus platform, we can be first in breaking new unscripted ground, which is part of our legacy with The Real World. DP: Whats the key to creating streaming success from IP that fans know and love from linear in the adult animation space? ND: Its about giving them more of what they want. With South Parks pandemic specials, which have been huge subscription drivers on ParamountPlus, its finding what is exclusive that you cant get on cable. You can be a little more edgy or provocative on ParamountPlus, so that offers a huge opportunity to take well-known IP like South Park and transform it in a way that surprises and delights the same fanbase. Being able to bring a special version of [Teen Wolf] to streaming is a priceless opportunity. DP: What have you learned about what content succeeds, and how does that inform the franchises you create? ND: The Challenge is a great example. Its a huge hit on MTV linear and we thought about how we could give those fans more of what they love. Thats how we came up with The Challenge: All Stars. On ParamountPlus, we were able to bring back all of the former favorite players on the show. We strategically listened to the audience and monitored what gets traction on social. Were engaging with them and creating content with the viewer in mind as we develop shows that can translate to ParamountPlus. And, Queen of the Universe, was inspired by the success of RuPauls Drag Race, which was about bringing a subculture to the mainstream. We thought about how we could create that on a global scale, but also do something that hasnt been done before. Its totally original and unique in that space as it not only tests if contestants have the singing chops but also amplifies stories about drag and gay culture all over the world. DP: What ParamountPlus content are you excited about? ND: Were really focusing on global and going to do a version of the Shore franchise that features a global cast to mix cultures together. Teen Wolf coming to the service will be huge as it has a very passionate fandom. Being able to bring a special version of it to streaming is a priceless opportunity."
"Paramount";"News Release";"Content Strategy WHY VIACOMCBS IS LEANING INTO SPANISH CONTENT Cecilia OCT. 29, 2021 By Nicole Bitette ViacomCBS is one of the top producers of Spanish-language content, part of its strategy to attract an international streaming audience by developing local hits with global appeal. ViacomCBS is one of the top producers of Spanish-language content in the world, producing more than 5,000 hours of Spanish content each year. The acquisition of Fox TeleColombia & Estudios TeleMexico, announced Oct. 28, will enable ViacomCBS to more than double its production of scripted Spanish-language content. The Fox TeleColombia & Estudios TeleMexico deal, combined with the purchase of Chilevisión on Sept. 30 and the acquisition of Argentinian broadcaster Telefe in 2016, have accelerated ViacomCBS Spanish-language production capabilities. Theres a unique value to establishing an international content pipeline, as it will fuel the global expansion of ViacomCBS owned channels and platforms, including ParamountPlus. Weve continued to accumulate critical assets to create Spanish-language content that feeds the entire ViacomCBS ecosystem, says JC Acosta, president of ViacomCBS International Studios & Networks Americas. Everything that weve amassed with ViacomCBS International Studios...all that content can feed our ecosystem: Starting with ParamountPlus, airing on FTA (free-to-air networks), and then ultimately ending up on Pluto TV. Argentina, Colombia, Mexico, Chile and Spain serve as VIS largest hubs of Spanish-speaking content. Half a billion people speak Spanish as their first language, says Marco Nobili, SVP of marketing, growth, data & analytics for VCNI. One thing is about the size of the audience that speaks Spanish, but the other element is about creating local content that travels internationally. STORYTELLING IS THE KEY AND CENTER OF EVERYTHING WE DO. THE LANGUAGE AND CULTURAL BARRIERS COME SECOND. Federico Cuervo SVP and Head of VIS Americas Local Content, Global Appeal When ParamountPlus launched in Latin America, the service was stocked with local, original content. Once youre a consumer of ParamountPlus in Latin America, you see that this is not just a U.S. service thats coming into that market. It already has that local feel in the local language, says Acosta. Thats a critical component as to how we operate in these global markets, ensuring that our audiences feel that what were bringing to the table is also representative of their culture and their story and talents and their faces and their language. VIS prioritizes working with talent and production teams who have connections to the content they create. For example, it inked an exclusive deal with Oscar-winning director Juan José Campanella, who is behind the upcoming ParamountPlus original, The Envoys. It also developed partnerships with director Ariel Winograd, actor Luis Gerardo Méndez, and production companies like Dynamo, producer of Narcos. Most recently, VIS greenlit Bosé a new ParamountPlus Original recounting the life story of international actor, Latin Grammy and Billboard winning recording artist Miguel Bosé, to be produced in collaboration with Shine Iberia, part of Banijay Iberia, Elefantec Global and Legacy Rock. As ViacomCBS International Studios expands its reach, its important for the studio to elevate its programming to change the ways we see ourselves and one another. In October, the studio launched VIS Social Impact, a new studio division committed to the development of groundbreaking social impact-driven content that addresses climate, equity, and health for the ViacomCBS portfolio of brands, including ParamountPlus. VIS announced its first greenlight for ParamountPlus, Protest & Progress, from world-renowned, history-making photographer and social activist, Misan Harriman.  [Were] ensuring that our audiences feel that what were bringing to the table is also representative of their culture, story, talents, faces, and their language. JC Acosta President of ViacomCBS International Studios & Networks Americas. JC Acosta Storytelling is the key and center of everything we do. The language and cultural barriers come second, adds Federico Cuervo, SVP, head of VIS Americas. We need to identify our audience and to whom we want to speak to. There is content that may resonate more with Argentinians, or may be more relatable for Mexicans or for Colombians, and that should be our main goal in the Americas. And then, travels to the rest of the world. Universal stories can appeal to everyone wherever they are in the world. Some of the content that has successfully traveled across markets includes the Shore franchise, which was a hit in Mexico with Acapulco Shore, and recently launched in Brazil with Rio Shore with similar success levels. Parot, a VIS scripted show from Spain starring Adriana Ugarte, Michel Brown, and Iván Massagué, really performed well on ParamountPlus in Latin America. Prior to the COVID-19 lockdown, VIS premiered the film El Robo Del Siglo (Heist of the Century) in Argentina. It continues to travel to new markets, including Italy, France, Japan, and the Middle East. A Shift in the Studio Strategy VCNI launched VIS in 2018, producing just a handful of novellas, reality shows, kids content, and series annually. It has worked with over 100 global clients and sold more than 7,000 hours of content to third-parties, fueling ViacomCBS global third-party production pipeline. This expansion led to a tenfold increase in revenue for ViacomCBS International Studios since 2018, according to Cuervo. It has more than 180 projects in development over 20 countries, including a significant line-up that fuels the international ParamountPlus services, such as Los Enviados (The Envoys), At Midnight starring Diego Boneta, Cecilia from director Daniel Burman, and an overall deal with international superstar Marc Anthony. We really had to shift the studio strategy with the onset of ParamountPlus. We wanted to make sure that we provided the best creative assets and our talent to the service in each region, says Acosta. From when that strategy started to today, we have more than 30 ParamountPlus originals that have been greenlit for the Latin American service and were currently starting the same process with all of the European markets that will launch in 2022 as part of the partnership with Sky. As ViacomCBS President and CEO Bob Bakish explained at the Goldman Sachs Communacopia conference in September, Global content utilization is ultimately key to driving scale and margins and were going to use ParamountPlus increasingly to distribute our entertainment content globally. According to Nobili, the strategy has already started to pay off. Our number one title in terms of acquisition for ParamountPlus in Mexico is a local, Spanish-speaking show [Acapulco Shore, Season 8] and in Australia, one of the most-watched title, Five Bedrooms, is also a local show. I think well see that pattern repeat over and over again. With dozens of projects coming down the pipeline, with some of the biggest talent and stars, we truly believe in the power of our global content."
"Paramount";"Press Release";"PAW PATROL: THE MOVIE Proves Its Pedigree With Fans August 24, 2021 August 24, 2021 – ParamountPlus announced today that PAW PATROL: THE MOVIE, which premiered on the service the same day it hit theaters on August 20, ranked as one of the services most-watched originals. The strong engagement of PAW PATROL: THE MOVIE on the service this premiere weekend is testament to the strength of the franchises loyal fanbase and the films creative storytelling, said Tanya Giles, Chief Programming Officer, ViacomCBS Streaming. Were thrilled that our premium kids content like PAW PATROL and our other hit kids originals from Nickelodeon like KAMP KORAL: SPONGEBOBS UNDER YEARS and RUGRATS continue to build a bedrock audience of kids and families. On top of its record-breaking streaming debut, PAW PATROL: THE MOVIE had a strong theatrical opening, earning $13.2 million in domestic box office on its opening weekend. The film was enthusiastically received by audiences, garnering an A- CinemaScore and 97% Rotten Tomatoes Audience Score. This domestic debut came on the heels of an excellent international opening, and the movie has now opened #1 or #2 in 10 markets, including #1 in France, Germany, Mexico, Norway, Hungary and Portugal, and #2 domestically (U.S. and Canada), as well as in the U.K., the Netherlands, and Austria. The cumulative worldwide box office is now $38.4 million, with more international territories set to open over the coming weeks. PAW PATROL is one of Nickelodeons most popular and powerful franchises, and the movies performance this weekend proves that kids and families want every path possible to engage with it, across streaming, theaters and through consumer products, said Brian Robbins, President and CEO of Nickelodeon, and Chief Content Officer for ParamountPlus, Kids and Family. This is among the best examples of taking something as big as PAW PATROL and making it even bigger, and we want to thank everyone at Nick, Spin Master Entertainment, ParamountPlus and Paramount Pictures—and most of all, the audience—for this weekends resounding success. PAW PATROL: THE MOVIE is a massive consumer products success across key markets and retailers. Products timed to PAW PATROL: THE MOVIE helped drive double-digit PAW PATROL growth across major key retailers, driven by toy categories, with notable success from items featuring the newly introduced character Liberty. Consumers worldwide were swept up in the PAW PATROL mania, with nearly 200 consumer products partners delivering products in support of the film including a robust toy line from Spin Master, as well as partnerships with Crayola (arts & crafts), Mattel (Mega Bloks and Uno), Build-A-Bear (plush and accessories), Hasbro (Operation and Play-Doh), Kelloggs, Campbells, Kraft Heinz and Random House Childrens Books, among others. ViacomCBS has also partnered with retailers such as Walmart, Target, Amazon, Kroger and LIDL to create omnichannel marketing programs driven by innovative activations. The program also featured specialized partnerships with ParamountPlus for a one-month free trial to shoppers, which was promoted through retail activations and partnerships. *Click here for PAW PATROL: THE MOVIE art. PAW Patrol: The Movie The PAW Patrol is on a roll! When their biggest rival, Humdinger, becomes Mayor of nearby Adventure City and starts wreaking havoc, Ryder and everyones favorite heroic pups kick into high gear to face the challenge head on. While one pup must face his past in Adventure City, the team finds help from a new ally, the savvy dachshund Liberty. Together, armed with exciting new gadgets and gear, the PAW Patrol fights to save the citizens of Adventure City! Joining the PAW Patrol in their thrilling first big screen adventure are members from the original series cast along with Iain Armitage, Marsai Martin, Yara Shahidi, Kim Kardashian West, Randall Park, Dax Shepard, with Tyler Perry and Jimmy Kimmel, and introducing Will Brisbin. About ParamountPlus ParamountPlus, a direct-to-consumer digital subscription video on-demand and live streaming service from ViacomCBS, combines live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment. The premium streaming service features an expansive library of original series, hit shows and popular movies across every genre from world-renowned brands and production studios, including BET, CBS, Comedy Central, MTV, Nickelodeon, Paramount Pictures and the Smithsonian Channel. The service is also the streaming home to unmatched sports programming, including every CBS Sports event, from golf to football to basketball and more, plus exclusive streaming rights for major sports properties, including some of the worlds biggest and most popular soccer leagues. ParamountPlus also enables subscribers to stream local CBS stations live across the U.S. in addition to the ability to stream ViacomCBS Streamings other live channels: CBSN for 24/7 news, CBS Sports HQ for sports news and analysis, and ET Live for entertainment coverage. For more information about ParamountPlus, please visit www.paramountplus.com and follow @ParamountPlus on social platforms."
"Paramount";"Press Release";"BET Launches BET Studios September 15, 2021 First-of-its-kind studio venture provides equity ownership to Black creators across premium TV & film content Principal partners include Kenya Barris, Rashida Jones and Aaron Rahsaan Thomas BET Taps Aisha Summers-Burke to Lead the New Venture as General Manager NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Sep. 15, 2021-- BET, a unit of ViacomCBS (NASDAQ: VIAC; VIACA), today launched BET Studios, an unprecedented studio venture that offers equity ownership for Black content creators. Propelled by the infrastructure and financing of BET and ViacomCBS, BET Studios will create premium television series and films for an array of internal buyers, including ParamountPlus, SHOWTIME, CBS, Nickelodeon, BET+ and BET, in addition to select third-party platforms that seek best-in-class content from both leading and rising Black creatives. BET Studios will launch with principal partners Kenya Barris, Rashida Jones and Aaron Rahsaan Thomas. The demand for premium content from Black creators has accelerated dramatically as a result of both the rapidly changing media and social landscapes. BET, with our 40-year legacy of celebrating Black culture, and the full power of the ViacomCBS ecosystem—is uniquely positioned to service this demand, said BET President Scott Mills. As a company with its origin in Black entrepreneurship, we are incredibly excited to create the first major studio to provide Black creators with ownership, creative freedom and the unparalleled partnership and support of BET. I am thrilled to have Aisha at the helm of this venture, and I look forward to our collaboration with our amazing creative partners in BET Studios. BET Studios is an exciting and novel extension of the storied BET brand, and we have a structure well-suited to our times to bring top talent into this production company with real ownership, said David Nevins, Chief Content Officer, Scripted Originals, ParamountPlus & Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Showtime Networks Inc. Scott Mills deserves tremendous credit for driving this innovative new business from idea to reality – and Kenya, Rashida and Aaron, could not be a more talented or in-demand group to lead this venture along with Aisha Summers. The investment being made by Scott, David Nevins, Bob Bakish and the ViacomCBS team into BET Studios is not only an investment in Black storytelling, it is also an investment in the culture, said Barris. And while individual success is great, being able to amplify and champion underrepresented storytellers has been equally exciting and this venture allows that to continue to be a key focus in this next chapter of my career. There is such power in the creative talent that the principal partners bring to the table and BET Studios unique ability to tell Black stories at scale, said Jones. This joining of forces is super exciting for me in the multitude of ways that people of color see themselves represented on screen. As a new venture, BET Studios offers an opportunity to expand the brands legacy of delivering Black stories, said Thomas. This is a chance to bring nuanced, layered narratives to life, partnering with a forward-thinking team, interested in surprising and engaging the audience. BET Studios will be headed by Aisha Summers Burke, who was recently appointed Executive Vice-President and General Manager of the new venture. In this role, Burke will be responsible for working collaboratively with the Studios formidable creative partners and key internal constituencies. Along with overseeing the day-to-day creative affairs for the company, she will also be responsible for the BET Studios content slate and focusing on growing the Studios production output across both internal and external platforms. Burke will report to BET President Scott Mills. BET has long been celebrated for excellence in producing quality programming that authentically depicts experiences lived within the Black community, said Summers Burke. With the launch of BET Studios, we are excited to introduce a new model that opens the aperture to a broad array of platforms and supports the full range of content from Black creators. This entrepreneurial environment offers creatives the opportunity to produce diverse high-end content reflecting all aspects of entertainment. Prior to joining BET, Burke spent thirteen years at Warner Bros. Television, most recently serving as Vice-President of scripted television for the cable and streaming division of Warner Horizon before it merged with Warner Bros. TV in 2020. About BET Studios Principal Partners BET Studios will operate with nimble teams of dedicated staff for Mr. Barris, Ms. Jones and Mr. Thomas. This group will utilize the BET and larger ViacomCBS infrastructure and shared services to support day-to-day tactics. BET Studios will be led by newly appointed General Manager, Aisha Summers-Burke, with Kenya Barris, Rashida Jones and Aaron Rahsaan Thomas serving as principals, and a broad array of creative talent that will partner with BET to launch the venture. Kenya Barris is an award-winning writer, producer, and director. Barris created the Netflix original comedy #BlackAF and the multiseries -ish franchise, which includes ABCs Peabody Award-winning sitcom Black-ish and spin-off series Mixed-ish and Grown-ish, which airs on Freeform. Most recently, Barris co-wrote Coming 2 America, the highly anticipated sequel to John Landis 1980s classic starring Eddie Murphy. In 2018, he was honored with the ACLU Bill of Rights Award, followed by being presented the 2019 Visionary Award from the Producers Guild of America and the Voice for Change Award from the Humanitas Prize. Rashida Jones is an actress, director, writer, and filmmaker. As a filmmaker, Jones executive produced the Emmy nominated Hot Girls Wanted and the follow up Netflix series Turned On. In 2018, her documentary Quincy, about her father, Quincy Jones, debuted on Netflix and won the GRAMMY Award for Best Music Film the next year. Alongside her partner Will McCormack, their company Le Train Train executive produced the hit dramedy series CLAWS, which premiered on TNT in 2017. Aaron Rahsaan Thomas is an acclaimed television and film screenwriter and producer from Kansas City, Kansas. Most recently, Thomas was the co-creator and co-showrunner of the procedural series reboot of S.W.A.T., which airs on Friday nights on CBS and has worked on NBCs Friday Night Lights—for which he received a Peabody Award and two NAACP Image Award nominations—as well asC BS series, like Numb3rs and CSI: NY. He has also served as a Co-Executive Producer on TNTs SouthLAnd, Foxs Sleepy Hollow, Netflixs The Get Down and directed an ESPN 30 for 30 documentary, Trojan War."
"Paramount";"Press Release";"Comcast and ViacomCBS Announce SkyShowtime, a New Streaming Service to Launch in Select European Markets August 18, 2021 Subscription Video on Demand Partnership to Include Premium and Original Content from Sky, NBCUniversal, Universal Pictures, Peacock, ParamountPlus, SHOWTIME, Paramount Pictures, and Nickelodeon SkyShowtime to Roll Out in 20+ European Markets Including Spain, Portugal, The Nordics, Netherlands, Central and Eastern Europe starting in 2022 Press Assets Available HERE LONDON & NEW YORK & PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Aug. 18, 2021-- Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ: CMCSA) and ViacomCBS Inc. (NASDAQ: VIAC, VIACA) today announced a partnership to launch a new subscription video on demand (SVOD) service in more than 20 European territories encompassing 90 million homes. SkyShowtime will bring together decades of direct-to-consumer experience and the very best entertainment, movies, and original series from the NBCUniversal, Sky and ViacomCBS portfolio of brands, including titles from SHOWTIME, Nickelodeon, Paramount Pictures, ParamountPlus Originals, Sky Studios, Universal Pictures, and Peacock. The services vast slate will span all genres and audience categories, including scripted dramas, kids and family, key franchises, premiere movies, local programming, documentaries/factual content, and more. This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https:;www.businesswire.com/news/home/20210818005282/en/ The new SVOD service is expected to launch in 2022, subject to regulatory approval. It will ultimately be available to consumers in Albania, Andorra, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Hungary, Kosovo, Montenegro, Netherlands, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, and Sweden. SkyShowtime will be home to 10,000+ hours of entertainment from some of the top creators and most beloved content from around the world. The new service will include first-run, new movies and TV seasons launching every month with a quality library of all-time favorites, classics, and family and kids programming. With the launch of SkyShowtime we are well positioned to utilize our global content engine to create a compelling streaming offering, quickly and at scale, with a smart strategic phased investment, said Raffaele Annecchino, President & Chief Executive Officer of ViacomCBS Networks International. As a complement to our recently announced ParamountPlus partnership with Sky in the UK, Italy, and Germany, SkyShowtime represents a huge opportunity to accelerate our market expansion and build a leadership position in SVOD in Europe. Our new streaming service, SkyShowtime, will combine the best of the US and Europe with iconic brands and world-class entertainment for millions of consumers in more than 20 new markets in Europe, said Dana Strong, Group Chief Executive, Sky. On the heels of Peacock coming to Sky, this partnership provides an innovative approach to quickly scale internationally and monetize content across Europe. Drawing on the strength of the incredible programming from NBCUniversal, Sky, and ViacomCBS, and powered by Peacocks platform technology, SkyShowtime will provide a truly compelling lineup for the whole family and strong brand recognition across these regions. The partnership will be structured as a joint venture, with equal investment and joint control by ViacomCBS and Comcast. Further detail on the SkyShowtime service offering, including subscription price, will be announced at a later date. About Comcast Corporation Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA) is a global media and technology company that connects people to moments that matter. We are principally focused on broadband, aggregation, and streaming with 57 million customer relationships across the United States and Europe. We deliver broadband, wireless, and video through our Xfinity, Comcast Business, and Sky brands; create, distribute, and stream leading entertainment, sports, and news through Universal Filmed Entertainment Group, Universal Studio Group, Sky Studios, the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, multiple cable networks, Peacock, NBCUniversal News Group, NBC Sports, Sky News, and Sky Sports; and provide memorable experiences at Universal Parks and Resorts in the United States and Asia. Visit www.comcastcorporation.com for more information."
"Paramount";"Press Release";"The new season of Undercover Boss premieres Jan. 7 on CBS. (Graphic: Business Wire) Emmy Award-Winning Series Undercover Boss Returns for Its 11th Season, Friday, Jan. 7, 2022 On CBS! December 8, 2021 The Network Announces the New Seasons College HUNKS, Fremont Street Experience, The Vitamin Shoppe and Ritas Ice Undercover Boss Episodes to Air in January Air Dates for Cocos Bakery, Mayor of Fontana, Restoration 1, Round Table Pizza and UScellular Episodes to Be Announced in the Coming Weeks NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dec. 8, 2021-- The Emmy Award-winning CBS Original series UNDERCOVER BOSS returns for an 11th season with nine original episodes, premiering Friday, Jan. 7 (8:00-9:00 PM, ET/PT) on the CBS Television Network and available to stream live and on demand on ParamountPlus*. This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https:;www.businesswire.com/news/home/20211208005801/en/ The first four companies are College HUNKS Hauling Junk & Moving (Jan. 7), Fremont Street Experience (Jan. 14), The Vitamin Shoppe (Jan. 21) and Ritas Italian Ice & Frozen Custard (Jan. 28). Air dates for the subsequent five companies episodes will be announced in the near future and are listed here in alphabetical order: Cocos Bakery, Mayor of Fontana, Restoration 1, Round Table Pizza and UScellular. Following are details of the first four episodes: FRIDAY, JAN. 7 College HUNKS – Omar Soliman and Nick Friedman, who co-founded College HUNKS Hauling Junk & Moving over 15 years ago, go on separate missions to make certain that the foundation of their company is strong enough to withstand exponential growth in the next couple of years. Will they need to do any heavy lifting within their company after seeing whats happening on the front lines? Will they (or any items in their care) crack under pressure while undercover? College HUNKS Hauling Junk & Moving, founded in Tampa, Fla. by college buddies Nick Friedman and Omar Soliman with the use of a beat-up cargo van, now has over 200 franchises across 39 states. The company provides full-service tech-enabled residential and commercial moving, junk removal, donation pickups, and labor services in the U.S. and Canada. https:;www.collegehunkshaulingjunk.com FRIDAY, JAN. 14 Fremont Street Experience – Andrew Simon, president and CEO, Fremont Street Experience, who began his job at this hugely popular Las Vegas attraction at the start of the pandemic, goes undercover to discover and address problems that may be sparking the labor shortage causing significant lost profits. Will the boss see the light while perched 100 feet off the ground to help change light panels on its enormous $50 million canopy? How does he handle the sticky situation of scraping gobs of gum from the mall floor for hours at a time? Does he leave anyone hanging during a physically demanding shift at the Slotzilla zip line? The Fremont Street Experience, designed in 1995 as a must-see six-block entertainment district built to reenergize Las Vegas downtown area, now attracts over 24 million visitors annually. The iconic destination is featured in countless television shows, music videos and films and helps generate over $800 million annually in gaming revenue. The area is known for its unparalleled offering of entertainment, featuring live music on three permanent stages 365 days per year; the Viva Vision canopy, the largest digital display in the world; and the urban-based thrill ride Slotzilla Zipline. https:;vegasexperience.com/ FRIDAY JAN. 21 The Vitamin Shoppe – The Vitamin Shoppes CEO, Sharon M. Leite, goes undercover to learn new ways to achieve added growth for her brand and to experience how her new operational changes and innovations are impacting the front lines. Will the boss find a healthy balance between the happiness of her employees and the satisfaction of their customers? Will her work as a store associate supplement the teams efforts or set them back? The Vitamin Shoppe is a global specialty retailer and wellness lifestyle company, providing trusted products and guidance for nutritional solutions, including vitamins, minerals, specialty supplements, herbs, sports nutrition, homeopathic remedies, green living products and natural beauty aids. The company conducts business in the U.S. online and in over 700 company-operated retail stores under The Vitamin Shoppe/Super Supplements banners, and internationally in select Asia, South America and Central America markets. www.vitaminshoppe.com FRIDAY, JAN. 28 Ritas Ice – Linda L. Chadwick, president and CEO, Ritas Italian Ice & Frozen Custard goes undercover to see how her new initiatives are working and to help franchisees become more profitable. Will the boss encounter procedures or equipment that seem frozen in time? What will it take to help her get a struggling franchisee to reach sweet success? Ritas Italian Ice & Frozen Custard, founded in 1984 in the greater Philadelphia area, has nearly 550 shops across the U.S. and Asia and is the largest Italian ice concept in the world. Dedicated to spreading Ice, Custard, Happiness! in every community it serves, guests visit Ritas to enjoy its famous, freshly made Italian ice and premium frozen custard in a fun-filled atmosphere. https:;www.ritasice.com/ Details on the additional bosses and their companies follow in alphabetical order by episode title: Cocos Bakery – Warren Boone, chief people officer, Cocos Bakery Restaurants Cocos Bakery started in 1948 as a small burger and pie restaurant on the Pacific Coast Highway in Southern California. Over 70 years later, the history of Cocos is rich with food made the right way out of their 30 restaurants across California and Arizona. Cocos takes pride in their award-winning pies, famous hamburgers, and California comfort food served for breakfast, lunch or dinner, in places as comfortable as your own kitchen. www.cocosbakery.com Mayor of Fontana – Mayor Acquanetta Warren, Fontana, Calif. Elected as mayor in December 2010 and overwhelmingly re-elected in 2014 and 2018, Acquanetta Warren is serving her third term as the mayor of the city of Fontana, the second largest city in San Bernardino County, Calif. with more than 208,000 residents. Mayor Warren focuses her administrations on bolstering economic development, creating educational opportunities, improving public safety and advocating for a healthier community. www.fontana.org Restoration 1 – Gary Findley, CEO, Restoration 1 Restoration 1, founded in 2008, is an award-winning franchise that specializes in emergency mitigation, restoration and reconstruction services for residential and commercial properties that have been damaged due to water, smoke, fire, mold, storms and more. With more than 350 franchise agreements awarded throughout the U.S., Restoration 1 is on track to expand to more than 500 locations nationwide in the next couple of years. www.restoration1.com Round Table Pizza – Paul Damico, former president and CEO, Round Table Pizza** (**Damico has since left for a position outside of Round Table Pizza.) Inspired by the honor, valor and revelry of the Knights of the Round Table, Round Table Pizza has earned the reputation of Pizza Royalty for over 60 years. Known for their homemade dough, signature three-cheese blend and gold-standard ingredients, the leading West Coast pizza brand now has more than 410 restaurants across the U.S. and internationally and takes great pride in its classic family recipes, hand-crafted in the same manner since their founding in 1959 in Menlo Park, California. www.roundtablepizza.com UScellular - Laurent LT Therivel, president and CEO, UScellular Serving five million customers, UScellular provides national network coverage and industry-leading innovations designed to elevate the customer experience. The company offers a wide range of communication services that enhance consumers lives, increase the competitiveness of local businesses and improve the efficiency of government operations. www.uscellular.com UNDERCOVER BOSS is a two-time Emmy Award-winning reality series that follows high-level executives as they slip anonymously into the rank-and-file of their own organizations. Each week, a different leader will sacrifice the comfort of their corner office for an undercover mission to examine the inner workings of their operation. Stephen Lambert, Jack Burgess, Mike Cotton and Rachel Bloomfield are the executive producers for Studio Lambert/All3Media America. This season of UNDERCOVER BOSS was filmed with comprehensive pandemic protocols in place during all aspects of production, under the supervision of a dedicated COVID-19 safety officer."
"Paramount";"Press Release";"Paramount Global CFO Naveen Chopra to Participate in the Deutsche Bank Media, Internet, and Telecom Conference NEW YORK-- (PRNEWSWIRE) -- March 8, 2022 – Paramount Global (NASDAQ: PARA; PARAA) today announced that Naveen Chopra, Chief Financial Officer, will participate in a question and answer session during Deutsche Banks Media, Internet, and Telecom Conference in Palm Beach, FL on Tuesday, March 15, 2022 at 10:20 a.m. ET. A live audio webcast will be available on Paramounts Investor Relations homepage at ir.paramount.com. A replay of the audio webcast will be available in the Events, Webcasts & Annual Meetings section shortly after the conclusion of the presentation. About Paramount Paramount Global (NASDAQ: PARA, PARAA) is a leading global media and entertainment company that creates premium content and experiences for audiences worldwide. Driven by iconic studios, networks and streaming services, Paramounts portfolio of consumer brands includes CBS, Showtime Networks, Paramount Pictures, Nickelodeon, MTV, Comedy Central, BET, ParamountPlus, Pluto TV and Simon & Schuster, among others. Paramount delivers the largest share of the U.S. television audience and boasts one of the industrys most important and extensive libraries of TV and film titles. In addition to offering innovative streaming services and digital video products, the company provides powerful capabilities in production, distribution and advertising solutions. For more information about Paramount, please visit www.paramount.com and follow @Paramount on social platforms."
"Paramount";"Press Release";"Paramount Global Announces $1.0 Billion Subordinated Debt Offering March 24, 2022 NEW YORK, March 24, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- Paramount Global (NASDAQ: PARA; PARAA) today announced that it has agreed to sell $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of 6.375% fixed-to-fixed rate junior subordinated debentures due 2062 at a price equal to 100.000% of the principal amount thereof (the Debentures). The sale of the Debentures is expected to close on March 29, 2022, subject to customary closing conditions. Paramount Global intends to use the net proceeds from the offering, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other fees and expenses related to the offering, for general corporate purposes, including the possible repayment of existing indebtedness. The joint structuring agents and book-running managers for the offering are BofA Securities, Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC. The Debentures, which constitute unsecured subordinated indebtedness of Paramount Global, are expected to be rated BB+ (stable) by S&P Global Ratings, BB+ (stable) by Fitch Ratings and Baa3 (stable) by Moodys Investors Service.* The terms and conditions of the Debentures are set forth in a prospectus and related prospectus supplement, which can be obtained by contacting Paramount Global Investor Relations at (877) 227-0787 or by written request to Paramount Global, 1515 Broadway, 52nd Floor, New York, New York 10036, Attn: Investor Relations. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction."
"Paramount";"Press Release";"Paramount Global Announces Redemption of Approximately $1.0 Billion of Notes April 1, 2022 NEW YORK, April 1, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- Paramount Global (the Company) (NASDAQ: PARA, PARAA) today announced that it would redeem (i) all of its outstanding 3.50% senior notes due January 15, 2025 (the 3.50% notes) and (ii) a portion of its outstanding 4.750% senior notes due May 15, 2025 (the 4.750% notes). The redemption date for the 3.50% notes is April 18, 2022. The redemption date for the 4.750% notes is April 11, 2022. The redemption price for the 3.50% notes and the 4.750% notes is equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount of such series of notes to be redeemed, the make-whole amount calculated in accordance with the respective terms of such series of notes and the related indenture under which such series of notes was issued, and the accrued and unpaid interest on such series of notes up to, but excluding, the respective redemption date on the principal amount of such series of notes to be redeemed. The aggregate principal amount of each such series of notes outstanding and the aggregate principal amount of each such series of notes to be redeemed is as set forth below: Title of Security Aggregate Principal Amount Outstanding Aggregate Principal Amount to be Redeemed 3.50% notes $275,000,000 $275,000,000 4.750% notes $1,250,000,000 $695,000,000 Holders owning notes through a broker, bank, or other nominee should contact that party for information. For more information, holders of the 3.50% notes and the 4.750% notes may call the paying agent for the redemption of such series of notes, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas at (800) 735-7777."
"Paramount";"Press Release";"Paramount Global Announces Redemption of Approximately $2.0 Billion of Notes February 17, 2022 NEW YORK, Feb. 16, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- Paramount Global (f/k/a ViacomCBS Inc.) (the Company) (NASDAQ: PARA, PARAA) today announced that it would redeem (i) all of its outstanding 3.875% senior notes due April 1, 2024 (the 3.875% notes), (ii) all of its outstanding 3.700% senior notes due August 15, 2024 (the 3.700% notes) and (iii) a portion of its outstanding 3.50% senior notes due January 15, 2025 (the 3.50% notes). Also, on January 28, 2022, the Company notified the respective holders that it would redeem all of its outstanding 5.875% fixed-to-floating rate junior subordinated debentures due February 28, 2057 (the 5.875% notes). The redemption date for the 3.875% notes is March 18, 2022. The redemption date for the 3.700% notes and the 3.50% notes is March 3, 2022. The redemption date for the 5.875% notes is February 28, 2022. The redemption price for the 3.875% notes, the 3.700% notes and the 3.50% notes is equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount of such series of notes to be redeemed, the make-whole amount calculated in accordance with the terms of such series of notes and the related indenture under which such series of notes was issued, and the accrued and unpaid interest on such series of notes up to, but excluding, the respective redemption date. The redemption price for the 5.875% notes is equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount of such series of notes to be redeemed and the accrued and unpaid interest on the 5.875% notes up to, but excluding, the respective redemption date. The aggregate principal amount of each such series of notes outstanding and the principal amount of each such series of notes to be redeemed is as set forth below: Title of Security Aggregate Principal Amount Outstanding Aggregate Principal Amount to be Redeemed 3.875% notes $492,139,000 $492,139,000 3.700% notes $600,000,000 $600,000,000 3.50% notes $600,000,000 $325,000,000 5.875% notes $520,000,000 $520,000,000 Holders owning notes through a broker, bank, or other nominee should contact that party for information. For more information, holders of the 3.875% notes and the 5.875% notes may call the paying agent for the redemption of such series of notes, The Bank of New York Mellon at (800) 254-2826, and holders of the 3.700% notes and the 3.50% notes may call the paying agent for the redemption of such series of notes, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas at (800) 735-7777."
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"We are a passionate group providing data needs for all Paramount properties. This includes ParamountPlus, ParamountPlus International, CBS, CBSNews, CBS Sports and related Sports Properties. Our team is made up of varying engineering roles including Data, Data Product and Ingestion Engineering. Our team is responsible for driving the ViacomCBS Streaming data strategy and best practices for data collection, Pipelines, usage and infrastructure. The Data Engineer should possess a deep sense of curiosity and a passion for building smarter products based on data, and the ability to communicate data structures and tools throughout the Paramount organization. The perfect candidate for this role will use their skills in reverse engineering, analytics, and creative, experimental solutions to devise data and BI solutions. This engineer supports data pipeline development which includes machine learning algorithms using disparate data sources. The ideal candidate will also work with BI, Research, Engineering, and Product teams to implement data-driven plans that drive the business. Works with large volumes of traffic data and user behaviors to build pipelines that enhance raw data. Able to break down and communicate highly complex data problems into simple, feasible solutions. Extract patterns from large datasets and transform data into an informational advantage. Find answers to business questions via hands-on exploration of data sets via Jupyter, SQL, dashboards, statistical analysis, and data visualizations. Partner with the internal product and business intelligence teams to determine the best approach around data ingestion, structure, and storage. Then, work with the team to ensure these are implemented correctly. Contributing ideas on how to make our data more effective and working with other members of the engineering, BI teams, and business units to implement changes. Ongoing development of technical solutions while developing and maintaining documentation, at times training impacted teams. Early on, collaborate with the team on internal initiatives to create strategies that improve company processes. Bachelor's degree and 2-4 years work experience in Analytics/Measurement/Data Operations fields or consulting roles with a focus on digital analytics implementations. Familiarity with data management systems, both relational and NoSQL (e.g., BigTable, HBase, Cassandra, MongoDB) Proficient in Python. Familiarity with SQL skills for BigQuery, MySQL, and Postgres to perform common types of analysis Experience with exploratory data analysis using tools like iPython Notebook, Pandas & matplotlib, etc. Strong problem-solving and creative-thinking skills. Ability to break down and communicate highly complex data problems as simple, feasible solutions Demonstrated development of ongoing technical solutions while developing and maintaining documentation, at times training impacted teams. Experience developing solutions to business requirements via hands-on discovery and exploration of data. Exceptional written and verbal communication skills, including the ability to communicate technical concepts to non-technical audiences, as well as translating business requirements into Data Solutions Experience building and deploying applications on a cloud platform (Google Cloud Platform preferred) Experience with Marketing tools like Kochava, Braze, Branch, Salesforce Marketing Cloud is a plus. Experience with Apache Airflow is a plus. Familiarity with Data Modeling. Familiarity in Hadoop pipelines using Spark, Kafka. Familiar with GIT. Experience with a Python web framework such as Django or Flask. Can perform statistical analyses using tools such as R, Numpy/SciPy with Python Experience with Adobe Analytics (Omniture) or Google Analytics. Digital marketing strategy including site, video, social media, SEM, SEO, and display advertising. Familiarity with ELT/ETL concepts."
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"The Manager, Data and Content Strategy is a highly visible role within the streaming and digital teams at CBS Stations. This role is responsible for building a suite of dashboards and reports that are clear, insightful, and business-driven. These reports, as well as ad-hoc analyses, will be used to make strategic decisions across content, programming, and distribution. The ideal candidate is technical, analytical, detail-oriented, strategic, and proactive. Additionally, the candidate should have superior knowledge of analytics tools and data visualization, preferably in news, media, or e-commerce. Translate large and complex data into a suite of dashboards and reports that are clear, actionable, and scalable Create compelling reports and presentations using data-driven insights, to both analytical and non-analytical audiences Identify and regularly track KPIs that drive business objectives Develop content strategies to inform what/where/when content should live across platforms Develop growth strategies and best practices for streaming, digital, social and third-party platforms Partner with cross-functional teams at our stations to rapidly innovate and optimize our digital business Help shape 1-year and 5-year operating plans, including building financial models and creating synthesized presentations for executive management Evaluate and assess the ROI/financial impact of new business ideas with input from relevant stakeholders Monitor industry trends and interpret the potential implications for the business 5+ years of experience in digital analytics within media or similar field, news is a plus Demonstrated mastery of Adobe Analytics and other performance tracking tools Strong verbal and written communication skills with high attention to detail Excellent interpersonal skills and ability to work well with multiple stakeholders Must be comfortable working both independently and as a member of a collaborative team Relentless focus on optimization and innovation BA or BS in relevant field with strong academic performance"
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"The Financial Analyst will support the Entertainment division of CBS Interactive and will focus primarily on ParamountPlus, our premium subscription product, which houses content from CBS, BET, Comedy Central, MTV, Nickelodeon, Smithsonian Channel, TV Land, VH1, Paramount Pictures and other sports programming as well as original streaming content. Much of the Analyst’s time will be dedicated to the valuation of existing content in the service as well as valuing content procurement opportunities, ranging from original series to live sports to movies. This role is focused on content strategy, therefore it will be modeling intensive and require an independent and creative thinker. Attention to detail is significant as analyses help inform long-term digital strategy. This position offers the right candidate an excellent opportunity within a successful and growing global media organization. It will provide wide ranging exposure to the evolving interactive content industry while working within the broader media umbrella of ViacomCBS Corporation. Responsible for creating and maintaining complex financial models to support the budgeting, forecasting and expansion of ViacomCBS ParamountPlus. Assist in maintaining show production budgets as they pertain to existing and planned original series, such as Star Trek Discovery and The Good Fight. Build and update ParamountPlus original series “greenlight” models in an effort to scope the value of specific content on the service. Work with internal business partners (Data Insights Group, Marketing, Entertainment ParamountPlus Development/Content & Strategy, Studios) to model new ParamountPlus expansion opportunities, including live sports, kid’s content, and movies. Handle detailed expense and revenue budgets for digital content housed on ParamountPlus, including Rights & Participations and Marketing budgets. Ad hoc requests and analyses will be frequent Bachelor’s Degree required Minimum of 2 +years experience in FP&A, finance or equivalent quantitative roles Additional Qualifications High level of proficiency in Excel, experience in preparing complex financial models and manipulating large datasets Strong communicator with the ability to moderate based on audience and demonstrate an ability to partner with a range of cross functional partners Experience in a highly analytical environment Strong work ethic and an acute attention to detail required Ability to work quickly and accurately on multiple projects concurrently Finance/Economics/Mathematics/Accounting major preferred Rigorous modeling experience Prior experience in digital streaming is helpful"
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"We are the Marketing Performance & Audience Acquisition Analytics team, part of the ViacomCBS Streaming Data & Insights Group (DIG) Business Intelligence team! DIG is a key connector between the ViacomCBS Streaming verticals. This group of subject matter experts prototype, build, and scale data infrastructure and products; assess, aggregate, and analyze data; and craft qualitative and quantitative-based narratives and insights, providing decision makers 8,with decision support, performance clarity and business-driving recommendations. We provide useful, data-driven solutions to address marketing challenges. We work closely with digital and corporate teams across the company portfolio, including ParamountPlus, Brand Tune In Initiatives, Marketing Strategy & Corporate Communications, and Distribution & Business Development. Interest and ability to tackle highly technical analyses, which require researching, reporting, communicating and ultimately providing decision support services and useful insights. Sources of data include marketing delivery and performance data including, but not limited to marketing platforms (Facebook, Google Marketing Platform), Adobe tools (Omniture, Audience Manager), mobile measurement partner (Kochava). The ability to interpret data and provide context to explain marketing performance, industry shifts, and usage across multiple platforms will be key to success in this role. The ideal candidate will possess strong communication skills, an inquisitive nature, attention to detail, and a love of media. Build and handle reports to provide various teams with an understanding of how our marketing efforts drive audience acquisition (sign-ups, trial-to-paid conversions, traffic growth, CPA, ROAS), retention (trial-to-paid-conversions, retention percentage, average tenure and churn, ROAS), SVOD sign-us (trial starts, winbacks, traffic to sign-up funnels, ROAS, LTV), tune-in/view thru (video views, video minutes, re-engagement - streams/minutes, ROAS), and any other applicable critical metrics. Work closely across the media strategy, media activation, and research teams to develop KPIs and reporting methodologies and approaches that are aligned to campaign and brand goals Partner closely with the Data Integration team to automate data sources and reporting Build ad-hoc dashboards and reports that provide in-depth, digestible, and visual campaign analysis by audience and creative holistically and by marketing channel. Make recommendations to the business from the data Leverage improved attribution and modeling on marketing platforms to understand the consumer journey and efficient pathway to conversion. Socialize and present findings to the media strategy and activation teams to aid in their efforts Write SQL to aggregate and analyze marketing data over time for QBRs. Uncover data stories and insights and present your findings to the executive team"
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"Our team is collaborative and passionate. We aim to drive business decisions on all levels through high quality, accurate, timely, research, data, analysis, and insights. Under the Senior Director, the Sr. Analyst, Streaming Research and Insights is responsible for supporting streaming insights that help meet key business objectives. This role’s primary responsibility is to support primary insights projects that aid market intelligence and understanding. Including tracking of essential metrics in the streaming landscape, and competitive intelligence gathering to support the streaming strategy! In addition to analytical and interpersonal skills. This role requires someone who knows how to interpret data and consumer research, who has experience working on primary consumer insights projects and who has a strong understanding of streaming landscapes. They must demonstrate the ability to see patterns, connect insights among consumers and to play a supportive role in all aspects of project management. A candidate with a passion for media and streaming is a must! Does this sound like you? Supporting the team in developing streaming insights projects on various topics through primary research that helps to find key opportunities for the business based on the insights. Primary streaming insights projects include projects that explore and visualize the streaming landscapes in the US, size various opportunities for ParamountPlus and Pluto TV, establish a deep understanding of the unique selling points for these streaming services, and how these services can be improved and grow in usage/subscriptions. Work directly with Sr. Director and internal decision makers(strategy and others) to identify key streaming needs and ensure the insights are continually addressing needs of the business. Support the Sr. Director with ongoing analysis and communication of the US Streaming Tracker findings, monitoring awareness, brand performance and perceptions of Paramount and competitor streaming brands. Spearhead the use of insights and data from the project across the streaming business and collaborate with the wider insights team to extract maximum value from the findings. Support team with administrative tasks e.g. booking meeting rooms, checking calendars, raising purchase orders, preparing research materials. Additional areas of exploration may include various areas such as multi-platform and technology developments and usage, as well as general audience insights. For all projects, we ensure outcomes are insightful and deliver on business needs; help infuse Paramounts perspective into projects; craft outputs to ‘bring the audience to life’ and champion communication of results throughout the organization. Become proficient in using specific syndicated insight data sources and tools and evangelize their use across the organization; demonstrate data for use by the wider company! As part of the insights team, contribute to establishing best practice processes and approaches, as well as the maintenance and expansion of insights tools and systems for usage of the wider business. Support various projects and change priorities effectively in a complex, fast-paced business environment. A high level of accuracy and attention to detail is essential! Strategic problem solver with strong analytical skills and able to find and tell a clear story based on data. Self-starter who is upbeat, hardworking, adaptable, and customer focused. Naturally curious, collaborative and passionate about consumer behavior in the media industry. Must work well under pressure and be able to meet multiple deadlines simultaneously. Experience with syndicated reporting databases such as MRI and YouGov and/or tools or any crosstab product such as SPSS. Proficiency in English, with excellent written and verbal communication skills; Strong PC, Excel and PowerPoint skills a must! Experience 2+ years in media research, preferably at a media owner (streaming/TV/digital) or at a research agency Completed a Bachelor's Degree Strong experience and knowledge of primary research approaches Experienced with working in a geographically dispersed team"
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"Pluto TV is seeking a Business Intelligence Analyst to join the BI Insights team. The role is a part of the Content & Programming Insights Pod, which conducts and completes all BI content or programming analyses for the wider organization The right candidate will have business experience, acumen, and focus on providing reports, analysis, and interpretation of performance metrics to inform content and programming strategy on Pluto TV. Developing accurate SQL queries end to end and conducting query analysis to develop insights on platform content, devices, and user performance Analyzing historical data and applying statistical analysis on KPIs for daily, weekly and monthly reporting Leveraging Excel and Tableau to distill data findings into actionable recommendations, formatting compelling data visualizations for presentation with stakeholders Consistently producing clear, compelling, accurate insights to inform business decisions in a timely, deadline-driven manner Requirements 3+ years of relevant experience in a Business Intelligence role, preferably with a focus on content and/or programming Solid working knowledge of SQL Skilled with Excel Working knowledge of Tableau or similar BI and data visualization tools Knowledge of streaming media, digital advertising, operation reporting processes is a plus Strong written documentation and presentation skills, using building executive facing presentations tools Ability to think critically and provide accurate work Experience working with other analysts in a collaborative team environment, and supporting standard methodologies Ability to collaborate with team members and managers on projects, communicate any blockers, and ask for assistance throughout the analysis lifecycle Managing time effectively to meet business deadlines"
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"The Senior Data Product Manager will be responsible for managing and coordinating all parallel data engineering initiatives with the other teams. The ideal candidate will need to have experience handling multiple work streams and should have experience working with data teams. You will own the Data Engineering backlog and help coordinate all the efforts around data-related requirements from other teams and effectively communicate open project risks and dependencies to other teams. Working with the Data Engineering team which is responsible for managing all data feeds and collecting analytical streaming data from all of Pluto TV client software. This is a very fast-paced environment dealing with dynamic requirements, very large volume, and high velocity of data. You must have strong analytical and problem-solving skills and strong organizational and prioritization skills. This is a critical role with a wide range of responsibilities, including: Authoring and owning product requirements and working closely with stakeholders Working with the PMO to prioritize requests Working with department heads and stakeholders to build trust and socialize what the Data engineering team delivers to support business goals Engaging directly with data engineers to build actionable and scalable data products to support business goals Understanding the architecture of the different subsystems of data engineering Help with managing KPIs that drive the Data Engineering team's performance."
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"We are the Marketing Performance & Audience Acquisition Analytics team, part of the ViacomCBS Streaming Data & Insights Group (DIG) Business Intelligence team! DIG is a key connector between the ViacomCBS Streaming verticals. This group of subject matter experts prototype, build, and scale data infrastructure and products; assess, aggregate, and analyze data; and craft qualitative and quantitative-based narratives and insights, providing decision makers 8,with decision support, performance clarity and business-driving recommendations. We provide useful, data-driven solutions to address marketing challenges. We work closely with digital and corporate teams across the company portfolio, including ParamountPlus, Brand Tune In Initiatives, Marketing Strategy & Corporate Communications, and Distribution & Business Development. Interest and ability to tackle highly technical analyses, which require researching, reporting, communicating and ultimately providing decision support services and useful insights. Sources of data include marketing delivery and performance data including, but not limited to marketing platforms (Facebook, Google Marketing Platform), Adobe tools (Omniture, Audience Manager), mobile measurement partner (Kochava). The ability to interpret data and provide context to explain marketing performance, industry shifts, and usage across multiple platforms will be key to success in this role. The ideal candidate will possess strong communication skills, an inquisitive nature, attention to detail, and a love of media. Build and handle reports to provide various teams with an understanding of how our marketing efforts drive audience acquisition (sign-ups, trial-to-paid conversions, traffic growth, CPA, ROAS), retention (trial-to-paid-conversions, retention percentage, average tenure and churn, ROAS), SVOD sign-us (trial starts, winbacks, traffic to sign-up funnels, ROAS, LTV), tune-in/view thru (video views, video minutes, re-engagement - streams/minutes, ROAS), and any other applicable critical metrics. Work closely across the media strategy, media activation, and research teams to develop KPIs and reporting methodologies and approaches that are aligned to campaign and brand goals Partner closely with the Data Integration team to automate data sources and reporting Build ad-hoc dashboards and reports that provide in-depth, digestible, and visual campaign analysis by audience and creative holistically and by marketing channel. Make recommendations to the business from the data Leverage improved attribution and modeling on marketing platforms to understand the consumer journey and efficient pathway to conversion. Socialize and present findings to the media strategy and activation teams to aid in their efforts Write SQL to aggregate and analyze marketing data over time for QBRs. Uncover data stories and insights and present your findings to the executive team Key Projects Build dashboards (using Tableau, Python and other BI tools) that illustrate how key performance indicators (KPIs) and metrics are changing over time. Provide “color” and insights from the findings and make recommendations. Build a pathway analysis report by signup month cohort for a paid online content subscription product in order to optimize media budget to acquire new customers We build an audience-based analysis to understand how different segments contribute to overall revenue. The ultimate goal is to be able to use this analysis to optimize media budget to segments with higher lifetime value (LTV) BA/BS. 2+ years experience in digital marketing and analytics, web analytics, online media industry. Strong Experience In Social And Programmatic Measurement Understanding of web, native app, video measurement technology and standards Proficient with analytical tools and languages supporting data analysis, reporting, and visualization - Excel, Microsoft Office, Google Collaborative Apps (Docs, Sheets, Slides), Tableau, R, Python Experience Extracting Data From Databases Using SQL Strong detail-orientation with a penchant for data accuracy and good grammar Exceptional communicator across all levels of the organization; able to effectively tell stories with data and present findings to a non-technical audience You Might Also Have Strong mathematics, statistics background Experience using project management tools like those from Atlassian (JIRA, Confluence) Experience Using Google Cloud Platform (BigQuery)"
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"The Senior Business Analyst (Content & Programming) will contribute immediately towards optimizing content performance by maximizing our partnerships with providers and our programming capabilities. This role is part of the Financial Planning & Analysis team and reports to the FP&A Manager, Business Analytics (Content & Programming). Our team aims to drive strategic business decisions through accurate and timely data & insights. This position will focus primarily on conducting a wide range of quantitative and qualitative analysis to support the operational goals of cross-functional teams (including Content Partnerships and Programming) and executives. The ideal candidate will be an effective communicator, have an extensive analytical background, and thrive in collaborative settings. Financial Analysis: Developing business models and recommendations based on findings. Providing monthly and quarterly financial overviews to senior management. Supporting FP&A reporting cycles, including annual budgets and long-range plans. Delivering and presenting results to internal and external stakeholders. Revenue Forecasts: Working with content partner account leads to handle priority accounts and to run revenue forecast models against existing business. Developing forecasts to inform deal analysis for prospective content partners based on internal metrics. Reporting and Dashboards: Collaborating with the Business Intelligence and FP&A teams to manage dashboards, monitor business performance, and provide meaningful insights. Augmenting existing revenue reporting processes to ensure accurate and timely partner reporting. Content Operations Costs: Collaborating with Content Operations to develop a seamless process to track, summarize & recoup overage costs, as well as tracking expenses and payouts. Business Planning: Generating recurring financial and key performance indicator (KPI) forecasts for each partner based on context, analyzing progress toward KPI targets, and making recommendations to senior and executive leadership on meeting or exceeding targets based on the Operating Plan. Ad Hoc Analysis: Sourcing, consolidating, and organizing content usage and financial data to create clear and actionable analysis for internal review and rapid decision making Bachelor’s degree required; Advanced degree or MBA preferred 5+ years of work experience in a finance, accounting, or similar quantitative role; media, entertainment, and/or technology experience a plus Advanced Microsoft Office and/or Google Workspace suite skills, particularly Excel/Sheets and Powerpoint/Slides Exceptional financial modeling, forecasting, and analytical abilities A willingness and quick ability to learn new software Excellent communication and presentation skills - be able to handle and synthesize large datasets to deliver critical insights in an easy-to-digest format for management and external partners Ability to work independently in a fast-paced environment Prior experience with data visualization tools (e.g., Tableau, Power BI, etc.) Prior experience with Alteryx Basic SQL proficiency"
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"Data plays a central role at CBS Interactive, and as part of the Data & Insights Group (DIG), our Measurement Operations team is a crucial part of our success. It drives business, product, and operational decisions by providing rich data, strategic insights and analytical products. We are looking for an analyst who is passionate about data and entertainment and who thrives in a dynamic and fast-paced environment. The position is anchored around our growing distribution business that offers CBS content on multiple access points, including its increasing Originals’ slate with shows such as Star Trek: Discovery, The Good Fight and Twilight Zone to name a few. The Distribution Analyst must be numbers oriented and a self-starter with a passion for media. In this role, the analyst will assist the Director of Distribution Analytics in coordinating and organizing reporting requirements for partnership deals.The ideal candidate should have the interest and ability to take on highly technical analyses and measurement implementations. This requires researching, reporting, presenting and ultimately providing decision support services and actionable insights to the business, as well as ensuring that all implementations conform to our data governance standards. Sources of data include Adobe Omniture, as well as internal sources and data provided by the distribution partners themselves. Build and manage dashboards showing the health of key business metrics across platforms like desktop web, mobile web, mobile apps, connected over-the-top devices for each distribution point Create standardized reports that provide a holistic view of content consumption across all access points and devices using multiple data sets Guide implementation and delivery of usage data on vMVPD products as well as internet TV platforms Help build measurement and data framework used to answer business questions across all distribution points, including vMVPDs, channels partners and TVEverywhere offerings Meet the reporting requirements of various business stakeholders Assist in defining consistent data points and KPIs and formulate methods to analyze them across multiple sources and data sets Maintain a data repository of metrics being collected for the multiple distribution platforms Work with CBSi distribution team, distributors and vendors to make sure all measurement requirements are being met Perform quality assurance audits on the data coming from external sources Assist in troubleshooting data quality issues and work with engineering and implementation to fix bugs Cater to ad-hoc data needs for distribution team BA/BS. 2-3+ years experience in web analytics Curiosity and eagerness to work with numbers and charts Must have experience with web analytics tools such as Adobe Analytics (Omniture) or Google Analytics Understanding of web, native app, video measurement technology and standards Proficient with analytical tools and languages supporting data analysis, reporting, and multi-dimensional visualization - Excel, Microsoft Office, Google Collaborative Apps (Docs, Sheets, Slides), Tableau or comparable BI tools Experience extracting data from databases using SQL, merging datasets and applying data visualization Detail-orientation with a penchant for data accuracy and good grammar Exceptional communicator across all levels of the organization; able to effectively tell stories with data and present findings to a non-technical audience Interest in Technology, Media and Distribution business as well as business acumen Strong mathematics, statistics background Knowledge in R and/or Python Familiarity with Adobe Federated Analytics Working history in digital media – particularly television or digital content Experience using project management tools like those from Atlassian (JIRA, Confluence) Experience using Google Cloud Platform (BigQuery) Experiences with 3rd-party syndicated audience measurement services (comScore, Nielsen)"
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"Data plays a central role at ViacomCBS, and as part of the Data & Insights Group (DIG), our Business Intelligence team is a crucial part of our success. It drives business, content, product, and operational decisions by providing rich data, strategic insights and analytical products. We are looking for a Business Intelligence Manager who is a subject matter expert in both data and entertainment, that will thrive leading a team of Analysts in a dynamic and fast-paced environment. The position is anchored around our our growing SVOD service of ParamountPlus, which includes a wealth of established library content across CBS, MTV Entertainment Group, Nickelodeon, BET and more, together with its increasing Originals and Exclusives slate, such as 1883, iCarly, Star Trek: Picard; RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars, PAW Patrol: The Movie; Mayor of Kingstown; The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge On The Run and Why Women Kill and many more. The Business Intelligence Manager will be responsible for leading a team of Analysts in the Content & Programming vertical, who provide reporting, insights, & analysis across multiple systems, focused on content performance of ParamountPlus (US). You will be responsible for the growth, development, job satisfaction and work queues of your direct reports. You will be expected to partner with client groups to conceive projects and analyses that "matter", answer key questions, and illuminate a path forward. You will manage multiple projects and collaborate with stakeholders and internal teams to ensure best in class projects are executed. Project planning and prioritization, including shepherding major initiatives and steering multi-analyst/multi-team projects. This will include collaborating with with partners from the Data & Insights Group, Stakeholders and Third Party resources Reviewing, designing, and developing reporting framework, visualizations, and dashboards pertaining to content performance Presenting insights, analyses, and recommendations in a narrative fashion tailored to any data customer up to and including executives Participate in conversations with Senior Leadership about opportunities and challenges Lead, educate, and critique data preparation work from end-to-end Guide a team of analysts with a variety of skill sets, responsibilities, and data customers Research industry trends and communicate how these could potentially impact the business Support Senior Leads in strategic and tactical decision-making and understanding the health of the business through Key Performance Indicators (KPI) / Objectives and Key Results (OKR) Responsible for continued refinement of content-focused KPIs and methodologies, based on the current needs of the business and industry standards Ensure the team is delivering high-impact insights and recommendations, through review, optimization and elevation of content reporting and analyses Collaborating with Senior Leads on roadmap development Communicate project deliverables, focused on content performance Responsible for enhancing approach to automation and efficiency in reporting Illuminate programming opportunities for ParamountPlus through leading competitor intelligence reporting and analysis Bachelor’s Degree in a related field or equivalent experience 3+ years experience in digital analytics, digital marketing/entertainment sector Demonstrable experience leading a team effectively in a fluid environment, against tight deadlines A proven track record of delivering actionable analysis and insights particularly to senior leadership Great presentation and communication skills, with the ability to articulate concepts to stakeholders at all levels in a clear and succinct manner, Expert in SQL Knowledgeable in Tableau, Adobe Analytics, Data Studio and Excel Strong understanding of many industry leading BI Tools Interest in television, entertainment and pop culture Additional Qualifications Strong mathematics, statistics background Experience using Atlassian project management tools (JIRA, Confluence) Experience using Google Cloud Platform (BigQuery) A background in Subscription Video on Demand (SVOD) or other subscription-based digital services"
"Paramount";"Job Posting";"We are the Audience Acquisition team, part of the Paramount Digital Marketing Advertising and Operations Services (MACS) team. We serve as an internal data-driven media planning, activation, and strategy team available to all groups within the company. We work closely with the digital teams at Paramount Digital providing high level, focused strategy and support for initiatives across the company portfolio, including but not limited to Paramount Streaming Services (CBS All Access / ParamountPlus, Showtime, BET+, Noggin), Brand Tune In Initiatives, Marketing Strategy & Corporate Communications, and Distribution & Business Development. MACS also acts as a centralized hub for all matters relating to data and technology within the digital media ecosystem. As an, Manager, Campaign Analytics & Research you will focus on supporting the MACS team with campaign analytics and research for paid media campaigns. This individual will be tasked with analyzing campaign performance and results to put together insights and wrap-up reports intra-campaign and post-campaign. This individual will work closely with the paid media channel leads to help keep track of results to benchmarks and then put together reports and materials that communicate any trends, insights and findings. The reports may be distributed via email or presented in meetings. This individual is passionate about data and metrics, is a wiz at Pivot tables, and knows how to tell a story based on the data. This will be a fun and fast paced role, so we are looking for an enthusiastic, organized and detail oriented team-player to join our ambitious team! Able to analyze data, put together a story of results, and present findings to both internal MACS team and other departments Present data findings in front of peers and to leadership Help maintain data cleanliness by Q/A’ing raw campaign data, occasionally helping to correct any data errors Handle ad-hoc requests for activation teams to understand and contextualize campaign data results Provide forward looking recommendations for audience targeting, partner mix, and budget to Activation team and Campaign Planning team Attend weekly meetings to understand when new campaigns are launching and any trends that may impact results. Understand market trends or other factors that may impact results Process-oriented, but adaptable to changes due to ever-changing digital landscape Curious, and always wants to be learning new things and pushing to make things more efficient and productive Minimum of 4 years of direct experience at a brand, agency, or related vendor in digital media field or role Strong understanding and knowledge of digital paid media attribution, metrics (e.g. CPM, CPA, etc), and benchmarks (e.g. avg view rate for videos, etc) Experience with ad servers (e.g. CM360, etc) and other paid ad tracking platforms (e.g. Google Ads, Facebook Business Manager, etc) Experience with web analytics (e.g. Adobe, Google Analytics, etc) Strong at putting together visual presentations using Google Presentations, PowerPoint or Keynote Strong data analysis skills using Excel, Tableau, Datastudio; immediate to advanced experience building dashboards and other visualizations; extracting data from various data sources to build dashboards and visualizations Enthusiastic, passionate and strong work ethic. Proactive and self-motivated. Strong verbal and communication skills. Flexibility and ability to handle multiple projects at one time. Additional Qualifications Experience with project management software or platforms such as Asana, Trello, JIRA, Basecamp or equivalent Bachelor’s Degree Experience within the digital media industry in marketing, advertising, or advertising technology & analytics, with Entertainment Streaming space a huge plus Direct digital media buying and activating also a plus Understanding of Python and/or R"
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"As part of a “best-in-class”, Pan-Nordic Theatrical team, the Insight and Analytics Manager will be all about supporting the larger team to make better decisions. It is not about second guessing, but value increasing discussions and decisions. We believe at least five areas of data will be your playground: Value Chain, Exhibitor, Financial, Customer/Market and Dark. Your analysis and input will assist in constantly, driving our market share, and ensuring WB’s position as an industry leader. The right candidate will mould the position and it’s impact with the larger team. Furthermore, by maximising revenue and finding new revenue opportunities you will also contribute to HBO Max Subscriber growth, in close collaboration with the HBO Max Nordic team. Together with local managers you will maximise theatrical sales revenue in the relevant territories. Optimising sales and playing time across all Warner Bros. releases with laying groundwork for ROI through the value chain. Provide insight into our activities and the impact of them in the various markets with local Mangers, ensuring maximal value is created from our campaigns. Liaise with finance on AR, and other key financial matrix -and follow-up with exhibition when required. Understanding how data, structured correctly can drive many forms of value. Acutely through analysis and insight and your way of presenting them, you will add value to discussions, meetings, presentations, and decisions to name a few spaces. Solid experience in – and understanding of the Theatrical Market as well as knowledge in- and a true passion for film. A strategic head as well as an organised mind, able to handle a fast-paced environment, also with limited supervision. Strong analytical skills and excellent knowledge of Excel. Solid understanding of the value chain of film, also financially. Demonstrates excellent communication skills and forges strong working relationships with key internal stakeholders particularly Sales, Marketing and Finance. Strong Swedish and English language skills A proactive and creative approach to problem solving. You are curious and will actively seek to make improvements and enlighten the wider team. Customer focused with strong verbal and written communication skills, also applying to making (rationale for) presentations. Good organisational and time management skills. Ability to build and maintain strong customer relationships through regular meetings, face to face, remote or via other channels. Able to display confidence with senior management."
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"This position is responsible for developing and supporting critical applications and subsequent integrations within the Production Technology portfolio. This position will assess and document complex business requirements, produce functional and technical designs, development, testing, deployment, and operational support activities. This individual will provide functional support on day to day business process initiatives for current systems, new systems and, new technology business transformation initiatives. This position will provide technical solutions in the Production Technology landscape. Applications include those within the production lifecycle including but not limited to accounting, budgeting, casting, contract management, script tracking, digital asset management, and productivity tools. Also included are over 20 integrations between industry standard applications: PSL, Smart Accounting, Movie Magic Budgeting, and corporate ERP solutions. Detailed technical knowledge of a variety of technologies and business knowledge of production is required. The role will perform day to day application maintenance activities, support application issues, attend client interviews and participate in stakeholder workshops. Upon establishment of the requirements, this position will use their technical and functional knowledge to support the design, configuration, development, testing, and deployment/cutover phases to implement to production. Designs, develops, supports, and manages application code, configuration, tables, forms, user interfaces, workflows, calculations, and third-party integration components for production applications. Develops, supports, and manages application code, user interfaces, and third-party integration components for AWS applications, and other custom integrations. Partners with Clients and Technology teams to define and capture business requirements, technical requirements, determines scope, and estimates the effort in the development of Technology requirements. Leads application development related activities while ensuring that appropriate governance exists for all delivery of technology solutions. Oversees vendor due diligence, information security compliance, analysis, procurement, acquisition and integration of complex software applications and systems. Minimum of 3-5 years of experience with configuration and development of applications using Microsoft or AWS technologies, preferably within the Entertainment industry or within a Union based workplace. Minimum of 3-5 years of experience with cloud-based technologies such as AWS or Azure Minimum of 3 years of experience with Database development technologies required Knowledge of Production processes. Experience gathering requirements, writing functional designs, drawing process flows, use cases, and writing test cases. Knowledge and practical application of the software development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and scrum project management with industry standard best practice methodologies. Experience with SaaS software. Past practice and implementation of process re-engineering efforts. General knowledge of SOX controls and processes. Functional Knowledge / Skills in the following areas: Knowledge of all phases of system development lifecycle, including production support Strong knowledge of ERP and SaaS client application(s) that support(s) the business process, with practical implementation of multiple modules / applications Knowledge of production accounting processes and related systems integration Data conversion concepts and impacts on new business processes Client deployment readiness concepts (e.g. business cutover) General Knowledge / Skills required: Strong customer service focus and responsiveness Proficient decision-making and time management skills. Strong analytical skills, interpretive and evaluative skills Strong organizational and project management skills across multiple threads of work streams Outstanding documentation, presentation, and interpersonal skills Creative and resourceful approach to the business and an ability to think and deliver creative value-added solutions to clients Ability to effectively communicate both verbally and in writing to all levels of management and staff Ability to lead a productive and effective workforce consisting of employees and contracted resources Technical Knowledge/Skills: Experience with JavaScript, JSON and API programming Experience with .Net, C#, and crystal reporting Strong programming in Java, Python or other modern object-oriented language Strong programming in SQL and Database development, relational or NoSQL Integration frameworks (e.g., middleware, transformation logic) Writes documentation and analysis used to identify systemic issues or problems with application or integrations Understanding of application technology and associated solutions and strategies related to the client’s business to help them achieve their business goals and objectives System design and testing concepts Client deployment readiness concepts (e.g. business cutover)"
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"3+ years of software engineering experience Experience working with 1st party game platforms (Xbox, PlayStation and Steam) in an engineering capacity (preferred) Experience with Unreal or equivalent game engine in an engineering capacity Experience with some or all of Word, Excel, Visio, PowerPoint, Jira (or other bug databases), Confluence, Visual Studio, Perforce, Git (or other source control tools) College degree in software engineering, architecture, or computer science preferred Excellent C/C++ programming skills with good debugging abilities. The ability to write clean and maintainable code. Strong desire to build industry-leading technology and help others achieve Good communication skills. Ability to collaborate with engineers and content creators to develop robust, maintainable, cutting-edge technology Creative, focused, results-oriented, self-motivated, resourceful problem-solver. A passion for gaming and a willingness to learn. Management has the right to add or change duties and job requirements at any time."
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"The Production Technology Architecture team supports various departments in the HBO / HBOMAX production group. Designing content workflows and writing custom software tools to help streamline production and content acquisition. We are currently recruiting for a Solutions architect to work out of our NY office. The Solutions architect role works with the Principal Engineer, and Technology Architect in overseeing the production of all internally built tools and workflows. This position is responsible for working with partners /clients to resolve common issues with systems and software. The ideal candidate will have experience in managing both on-prem hardware and software as well as cloud-based solutions in a postproduction environment. Day to day you will work with our third-party vendors to request and implement features for both the company and application stakeholders, you will also coordinate with internal infrastructure teams to analyze and re-architect existing technology structures and migrate them to next generation solutions and standards. Additionally, you will maintain and manage our orchestration systems that support our acquisition and quality control teams. Administrator internally built software system (KeystoneMAX / Welder) Educate users on system features and functions User Management OKTA / MFA integration Track and resolve workflow issues Work with the Principal Engineer to develop fixes / workarounds Assist with software integrations to on-prem systems (Access / Premiere) Work with the IT department to deploy / fix on prem systems Educate users on new workflows in editorial / postproduction software Premiere Colorfront Resolve Documentation of Policies and Procedures Extremely organized and detail oriented. Expert in television postproduction process File transcoding in the following applications: Amberfin Telestream Colorfront Radiant grid Content Agent Strong cloud (AWS) skills Strong teamwork and client management skills Excellent written and verbal communication skills Resourcefulness and ability to work collaboratively Familiarity with cloud based supply chains (SDVI) would be a plus Some software development experience (Python) would be a plus Flexibility to work off hours, remotely or in office and travel some."
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"The Data I/O Operator is responsible for data and content movement and coordination throughout the facility, across multiple platforms and equipment configurations. Expedite work orders for both picture and audio departments Reading and writing data to various media formats across multiple platforms and equipment configurations. Ensuring media management and archiving protocols and procedures are adhered to. Provide prompt and secure handling of all material received and sent from the facility. Log, track, QC, and communicate with production teams after receiving delivery materials Digital file transmission using Aspera Faspex and ASCP programs, Signiant, etcetera. Managing of disk space within a post production storage environment. Develop scripts and/or programs to automate operations and simplify processes. File manipulation including renaming, renumbering, metadata information, etc. Interact directly with client facing personnel to establish scope of data work required and assisting in architecting an appropriate workflow for each production. Enforce retention policies; monitor storage volumes to prolong disk health. Work directly with engineering department to troubleshoot and remedy equipment issues. Adhere to established and approved in house workflows for requesting, creating, editing, publishing, and archiving content. Good working knowledge of digital cinema workflow, camera types and formats, codec’s, framerates, colour spaces and industry standard deliverable formats. Ability to recognize different file formats/image size resolutions for file processing and quality control Work a flexible schedule; weekend and evening shifts are possible Good level of knowledge of all delivery formats is essential for this role as is a good understanding of the post-production process & technical requirements for international delivery. Excellent working knowledge of Aspera and other secure file transfer networks and platforms. Full understanding of tapeless workflows Good working knowledge of digitizing, transcoding, logging, syncing and grouping Exposure to processes and etiquette around high end episodic television drama and studio feature films. At HBO, we believe that digital technologies will bring forward a new era of entertainment products. The Production Operations team bridges the intersection of art and technology by implementing emerging technologies with established methodologies and building tools for our original programming creative teams. Production Operations hopes to inspire the creative team to continue make cutting edge content and experiences. Realizing this mission requires a staff of highly motivated and technically flexible software professionals across a variety of disciplines: development, program management, test, and design. We are hiring people to build a team that can create engaging, high-quality solutions, platforms and interactive experiences. We are looking for a Software Engineer with the knowledge, motivation, and energy to help build robust and flexible custom applications as well as integrate third-party software packages. You will design and develop architecturally sound custom applications as well as implement and integrate third-party software packages. You will partner with business analysts, project managers and other engineering teams to understand requirements, evaluate and recommend strategic solutions. In addition, you will help plan, initiate, and effect changes to the future-state architecture and technical stack of applications. We are looking for a highly skilled individual who has a proven track record and takes pride in bringing high-quality code quickly to market, enjoys learning and applying new technologies, and thrives in a dynamic engineering-oriented work environment. Successful applicants must have deep knowledge with hands-on experience in: Knowledge of indexes, index management, and statistics Presentation-tier technologies such as Angular, Node. Programming Languages such as Python, PHP, Java. SQL and database concepts for RDBMS’ such as Oracle, MySQL. NoSQL database knowledge is a plus Enterprise integration patterns and technologies such as REST, SOA, JMS, and ESB Development tools such as GIT/Subversion, Maven, JUnit, Bamboo, and JIRA 3+ years of established track record of implementing large-scale high-quality software applications. Very strong communication skills and an ability to interact with all levels of technical and non-technical personnel. Drive to master emerging technologies and share experience with team members. Proven problem solving and critical thinking skills. Solid foundation in troubleshooting application and data issues. Ability to understand goals, strategies, and needs of the business as they relate to application development. Ability to be a self-starter and to multitask. Ability to fit into an agile development environment and create a positive influence. Bachelor’s degree in computer science, engineering, or equivalent technical experience."
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"WB Games is seeking a Senior Data Scientist to work on applied statistical problems centered on understanding and forecasting the results of our advertising efforts. Models will focus on topics such as probable cohort cost, monetization, and engagement. The Senior Data Scientist will work closely with user acquisition, product management, and other groups to understand how our games are made and marketed, and to create and share the quantitative insights that help those groups be the best at what they do. The Daily Use R or Python to conduct analysis and train and tune ML models for regression Use SQL to find, clean, transform, and extract needed data from warehouses Create visualizations and reports to effectively communicate results Partner with analysts, data engineers, and other data scientists on collaborative projects Provide thought-leadership in methodologies appropriate to marketing measurement The Essentials Degree in a quantitative field (e.g. mathematics, machine learning, statistics, business analytics) Practical applications of causal inference and Bayesian statistics Experience working with media mix optimization Experience with SQL, as well as fluency in R, Python, or both A self-motivated, results-oriented, “musketeer” attitude that can thrive in a collaborative, cross-functional team The Nice to Haves Industry experience in performance marketing, ecommerce, finance, or similar fields Experience with Looker, Shiny, and/or Markdown A personal passion for games and gaming"
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"Warner Bros. Games (Warner Brothers Interactive Entertainment) is the interactive home of some of the most iconic brands in entertainment. From Mortal Kombat and Batman to Harry Potter and LEGO, we produce stories and unique player experiences that reach millions of gamers across the world. To continue our growth trajectory, we are further building out our team of collaborative individuals with analytic thinking and strategic minds. We are seeking an Associate Manager, Marketing Analytics, to join the Marketing Team at our Burbank HQ.  Reporting to the Director of Marketing Analytics, the ideal candidate will be a self-starter with a proven track record of business-focused Analytics support and solutions experience.  This is a new position as we are looking to build this team out: there will be a wide opportunity to solve interesting business questions and bring together diverse teams, data, tools, and techniques, to deliver comprehensive and insightful analyses to support Warner Bros. Games business decisions. Marketing Analytics support and focus across three primary pillars of capabilities: Campaign Analytics: KPI Reporting, Benchmarking, Measurement of how various Marketing activities are doing in driving sales. Social Analytics: Sentiment & Social Platform Analytics (mentions, views, posts), analyze how our community fits into Marketing strategically, optimizing which social platforms we should be using. Influencer & Streaming Analytics: Streaming Platform Analytics (minutes watched, viewership, streamer retention), measurement of how influencers impact our business objectives, relationships between viewership and game growth. Creation, iteration and ownership of Data Analyses that inform complex business problems. Bring forward best-in-class data methods, to increase the level at which data drives business stakeholders’ decision making. Provide primary analytics support to Marketing Channel leads (Content Marketing, Influencer team, E-Sports team, Social and Community team) and Brand Managers. Write and present clear summaries of analyses, with engaging visualizations of data and specific, actionable recommendations to business stakeholders. Ability to talk about technical subjects (e.g., a regression) to a non-technically inclined audience. Leveraging specific Marketing Analytics tools and methods Market Mix Modeling, Multi-touch Attribution, Prediction Modeling, Data Visualization, A/B testing, simulations and optimization, Incrementality Analysis, Text Analytics. We are not looking for a unicorn who already knows about all the above, but a candidate who understands some of these topics already with a desire to learn further about them all. Have 3+ years of demonstrated experience in providing Business-focused Analytics support and solutions. This Business-focused Analytics support and solutions is not required to be strictly within the “Marketing Analytics” space, but it is a definite plus. A proven history of communicating with cross-functional partners, using data to solve complex business problems and drive business solutions. An understanding of how Marketing and its various components serve as drivers of overall performance. A big-picture understanding of Key Performance Indicators such as ROAS, Cost per Acquisition/Unit sold, LTV, Retention Rate, Daily/Monthly average usage, etc. Proficient with both Excel and a data visualization tool (e.g. Tableau). Experience with some combination of Google Analytics, Social Listening Tools, SQL, and Social Media APIs. R and Python experience is helpful but not necessary. Bachelor’s Degree or above in a quantitative-focused field. Relevant fields include but are not limited to Business Analytics and Management, Data Science, Economics, Mathematics, Statistics and/or Marketing."
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"Own game team relationship.  Partner with game teams to get all needed content around game updates including art files for publishing asset creation, descriptions of content updates for community, social media and CRM. Aggregate publishing performance data to share with game teams Own execution of game style and brand guides: Develop style guides, Work with game teams to ensure style guides are flexible enough for publishing testing, Own the asset approval process Collaborate with Mobile Publishing and Game Teams: Ensure everyone is working off the same set of goals. Ensure everyone is aligned around the current state of the game Develop go-to-market and live phase product campaigns: Build content and engagement rich strategies. Manage consumer touchpoints over the lifecycle of the product 5+ years of product marketing, games preferred Experience developing and executing high performing and progressive product marketing campaigns in support of a product line or for specific products. Written, verbal and visual communication skills Ability to execute, prioritize competing deadlines, and manage multiple, complex projects Self-starter and comfortable working in ambiguous situations Team player who is compassionate and understanding other team member’s needs and situation Strong analytical and quantitative skills, including superb ability to dissect data and measure ROI Passion for mobile games"
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"WB Games San Francisco seeks an ASO Analyst to join the Mobile Publishing and Analytics group and lead strategic analysis focused on identification, evaluation, and execution of opportunities to drive growth and excellence across the WB Games’ game portfolio. As an ASO Analyst, you will help identify organic growth opportunities for our portfolio of games and perform market research to stay abreast of the competitive landscape. You will also help track, monitor and report game performance. Reporting to the Director, ASO, this role is crucial to driving Warner Bros. aggressive goals in mobile games. Responsible for identifying new ASO opportunities on both Google Play and App Store and suggesting recommendations to grow organic install footprint. Ensure all games appear at the top of search results. Track pre-defined KPIs and analyze performance. Carry out research projects aiming at monitoring and reporting mobile market trends and opportunities to grow organic install volume. Perform ad hoc analysis to understand changes in key metrics. Proven knowledge of mobile platforms and technologies. Perform keyword research in multiple languages. Write game descriptions and titles using researched keywords to maximize discoverability. Develop standardized data sets, metrics, and reports to monitor WB Games KPIs. In charge of release/submission process, managing localization admin process, assisting with creating and delivering post-release and monthly reports and updates. Opportunity to advise on cutting edge tests and experiments for our portfolio of games liaising with internal teams and acquire expert ASO knowledge and implement findings. Strong analytical skills and the ability to leverage data to make informed recommendations. Proficiency with MS Office and GSuite. Experience with Looker and other data visualization platforms a plus. Experience with Sensor Tower Market Intelligence products."
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"As part of the Ad Monetization Team, the Senior Analyst will help drive growth to the company’s mobile games portfolio by identifying and maximizing ad monetization strategies to generate additional revenue and profitability. The Senior Analyst is tasked with achieving revenue targets through (but not limited to) in-game advertising.  Individuals in this role are expected to have a strong understanding of mobile game monetization, be very detail oriented, and possess strong communication skills to coordinate cross-functionally between different stakeholders. Manage a portfolio of games and projects that advance team business goals.  Develop, launch and live operate in-game ad monetization strategies to generate advertising revenue Track and optimize existing integrations through detailed analysis.  Identify the highest impact testing opportunities, prioritize, execute, measure and communicate results to key stakeholders Collaborate with Product Managers and Analytics teams to establish and continually refine analytic frameworks Explain shifts in market, territory/region dynamics, mobile marketing trends, and user quality behavior to key stakeholders. 2+ years experience in mobile gaming, ad revenue optimization, ad network management, product management or similar functions Strong familiarity with iOS, Android and Facebook games, marketplaces, trends and best practices Understanding of free-to-play and micro-transaction based business models Proficiency with MS Office (incl. Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint) or similar products Experience with Looker, Tableau, and other data visualization platforms Experience with AppAnnie, SensorTower, or other market intelligence products a plus Working knowledge of SQL a plus Passion/knowledge about games is a plus"
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"We are looking for a curious and self-driven individual with strong analytical and critical thinking skills to join our team at CNN. The analyst will be part of the strategy and operations team supporting digital Commerce initiatives, including the fast-growing CNN Underscored brand, which includes our reviews and recommendations products, savings site CNN Coupons, upcoming growth initiatives, and various related licensing and distribution efforts. This role offers a great opportunity to learn about the business and gain experience in media and commerce. This position will report to the Director, Operations & Strategy for Commerce. Support strategic growth initiatives with a cross-functional team of product, design, technology, editorial and business colleagues • Partner with Director on project strategy, execution and presentation • Help create cohesive project timelines and plans for strategic initiatives that synthesize detailed plans and updates from cross-functional teams. • Help prepare and execute presentations on strategic plans and financial updates to senior management • Organize and manage documentation • Conduct ad-hoc analyses and research on new opportunities and business models that CNN pursues in the Commerce space The Essentials • 2+ years of experience in business experience at a media company, commerce company, consulting firm or equivalent • Strong communication, organization, and writing skills, with great attention to detail • Demonstrated experience creating, owning, and developing PowerPoint presentations and similar forms of communication • Advanced skills in Excel, organizing and manipulating and analyzing data • Curiosity to explore data, and ability to distill insights and make connections that help support compelling narratives • Experience working in a cross-functional team with multiple workstreams • College Degree in a related field desired but not necessary (Bachelor's Degree in Business, Science, Marketing, Journalism or a related discipline) • Ideally based out of New York City or Atlanta"
"HBO Max";"Job Posting";"The CNN TV Research Manager (Temporary) will join a team of strategic research professionals who provide insights to a variety of high-profile internal stakeholders including the executive team. This position reports to the Director, CNN TV Research & Analytics and will be part of an Atlanta-based team that focuses on forecasting audiences across CNN and HLN’s linear platforms to drive multi-billion-dollar ad revenue. This position requires someone who is an innovator thinker, solutions-oriented and enjoys improving processes.  Along with forecasting, the role will provide support and insights to Finance and Strategic Planning business groups across WarnerMedia. The responsibilities will also include assisting with the regular reporting duties executed by CNN and HLN’s TV Research team. Forecasting CNN and HLN’s linear audiences (estimates used for selling and managing commercial inventory) and maintain and manage ad revenue rate cards. Extract and analyze consumer and viewing data from Nielsen research software applications (Ex: Nielsen NPower, Arianna, Star Media, etc.) to identify trends and create actionable insights. Compile, create, and maintain large-scale datasets to be translated into data visualizations through tools such as, but not limited to, Tableau or Domo. Develop ad-hoc analyses on key topics through secondary and primary research projects. Provide research support and recommendations (with manager oversight) for CNN / HLN Executive Management Team and other WarnerMedia business groups. Assist in production of daily, weekly, and monthly reporting needs for the CNN and HLN brands, as well as competitive networks. Minimum of 3-years relevant work experience in Data Analysis, Media Research, Media Buying/Planning, Market Research, Consumer Insight, or related field.   Bachelor’s degree required with analytics, market research, marketing, mass communications, mathematics, psychology, statistics, data science or business administration preferred. Strong work-ethic and capacity to adapt to fast-paced environments; must have the ability to handle multiple assignments at once with priorities that can change at a moment’s notice. Must have strong Excel skills and be highly comfortable with data. You must be able to do: Excel formulas (IF, VLOOKUP, COUNT, SUMIF, SUMPRODUCT, etc.), Pivot Tables, Macros, and create charts. Quick learner of new software and processes. Works well with a team and autonomously Proficiency in Microsoft Office Suite (Power Point, Excel, Outlook, and Word). Strong analytical skills -- ability to collect, organize, and analyze significant amounts of data with meticulous attention to detail and accuracy, and transform into meaningful, actionable information. Basic skills for data analysis programing languages such as SQL, R, or Python preferred; additional experience in Looker, Tableau, PowerBI, DOMO, or other similar data visualization software is ideal. Knowledge of how television programming is evolving and the platforms on which viewers can consume them, is a plus."
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"Today, we are proud to announce that WarnerMedia and Discovery Inc, Inc. are now Warner Bros. Discovery. Follow Warner Bros. Discovery for all new company updates and learn more here."
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"Isn't our LATAM Talent Acquisition Advisor Camila a great tea-cher? We think so! Learn some of her best #CareerTips for answering interview questions."
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"The Bat and The Cat arrived at WarnerMedia. In anticipation of the premiere, employees around the world jumped into their Batmobiles to hang with their favorite sidekicks (colleagues) for exclusive screenings of #TheBatman, like these at our offices in Burbank, NYC and London."
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"Buckle up and head over to the Warner Bros. Archives with us! In the latest episode of ‘Who Does That?,’ Matt Truex and Robert Sandoval from our Archives team tell us how they prepared Batman’s ride for promotional tours leading up to The Batman film release."
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"It's tea time and our Manager of Sourcing, Deb Yarnall is spilling her best LinkedIn networking secret. Come back next month for more #CareerTips!"
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"As we close out this roaring #LunarNewYear, swipe to find out where your zodiac will take you in your career this Tiger year."
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"You asked for the tea and we're serving it, or rather...spilling it. Today our recruiter Khyra gives the lowdown on perfecting your resume. Tune in to RecruiTEA every month for more #CareerTips!"
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"The emergency in Ukraine is the worst humanitarian crisis that Europe has seen since World War II. Our partner International Rescue Committee is on the ground—in Ukraine and in Europe—supporting those fleeing the fighting. Learn more about their response and how you can help"
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"Time for some qualiTEA #careertips! On this episode, our Talent Acquisition Operations Specialist Joanna shares some insider information on the best place to submit your resume and application."
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"Tech candidates, this tea is for you! Our HBO Max Recruiter Umair Ashraf shares his #careertips for optimizing your resume and network to find your next great role."
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"As we close out #BlackHistoryMonth, we're proud to spotlight employees who share how their identity is deeply rooted in excellence and deeply connected through traditions, sisterhood, brotherhood, the arts, and storytelling."
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"We love a good story, especially when it gives people the opportunity to let their creativity shine. So we held our first ever TikTok Resume Challenge! As part of our Virtual Career Conversations Week, we asked students to get fun with their resumes and tell us their stories on TikTok for a chance to get 1:1 time with our recruiters. Thanks to all who submitted—you’ve left us feeling inspired!"
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"Need some interview prep? Our Sr. Recruiter Daisy has the tea that will help you sweeten up your interview skills. #CareerTips"
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"Once upon a time, it was UK #NationalStoryTellingWeek and our employees were tasked with telling different parts of a story using only their imagination and just a few details. They were told the name of the story, where their section in the narrative came, and a beginning line–the rest was up to them. One thing is certain, storytelling is in our bones! Buckle up for this weird and wonderful story about what happens when WarnerMedia characters collide."
"HBO Max";"LinkedIn Post";"We believe everyone deserves authentic, meaningful connections, and our employees have the power to make a difference. Join us on Day 5 of Virtual Career Conversations Week to learn how Dan and others are committed to making sure that diverse voices are seen, heard and supported at WarnerMedia. Sign up here https://lnkd.in/gnd6iJZg #CareerConversations #ShapeWhatsNext"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"We're very focused on our franchise strategy and if you look at the impact of the theatrical releases on streaming, they perform amazing. Brian Robbins sat down with CNBC to discuss how #Paramount's strategy brings more people to theaters and more subscribers to ParamountPlus."
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"Our employees and brands around the world have been finding ways to use our content and capabilities to help those devastated by the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. Here are some of the ongoing efforts from across our company: - Pluto TV added a Nick Ukraine channel in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, France, Spain, and Italy. Pluto TV also launched Ads for Change, a global initiative donating more than $2.5 million in free advertising across its platforms to humanitarian organizations including Save the Children, World Central Kitchen, UNHCR – The UN Refugee Agency and IRC – International Rescue Committee. - Nickelodeon will introduce YouTube content in Ukrainian on certain Nickelodeon and Nick Jr. channels across Europe. Nickelodeon and Pluto TV also collaborated to offer pop-up linear channel that's commercial-free and available for free to more than 30 distribution partners across Europe. - The Paramount Consumer Products team worked with The Toy Foundation to donate toys, apparel, and more to refugees. - MTVE initiated a global call to action across linear and social for audiences to donate funds to support relief efforts across several organizations, including World Central Kitchen, International Medical Corps, Save The Children, UN Refugee, UNICEF, and more. - Channel 5 aired a fundraising special, Ukraine: How YOU Can Help, in the UK. - The news teams at CBS News, Channel 5, Chilevision, Network 10 and TELEFE continue to report the news on-the-ground."
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"The living room couch is still the most important place for advertisers to reach kids and families. When families watch together, kids and adults are more attentive. The rise in co-viewing is a behavior change that will help marketers reach audiences of all ages and increase the effectiveness of ads. Karen Phillips, EVP of convergent ad sales at #Paramount, discusses kids' content consumption and how they influence their families. Check it out on Ad Age"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"Our filmmakers produced a great product, and our marketing and distribution teams did an amazing job. Watch Brian Robbins on CNBC talk about the amazing opening weekend for #SonicMovie2. Paramount Pictures #WeAreParamount"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"All year round we embrace our responsibility to both minimize our environmental impacts and inspire others to take action to protect the planet. During #EarthMonth, teams across #Paramount emphasize our commitment to the environment. ParamountPlus and Pluto TV are featuring a variety of Earth Month programming and CBS News launched Earth 365, a series exploring the damaging effects of climate change and the solutions being implemented to save the environment. Together, we can make strides to create a more sustainable world. #EarthDay"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"Congratulations to our FIVE Peabody Awards nominees for the portrayal of these powerful and enlightening stories MTV Documentary Films for Lynching Postcards: Token of a Great Day Awesomeness for PEN15 Paramount Television Studios for STATION ELEVEN Showtime Networks Inc. for ATTICA Showtime for YELLOWJACKETS"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"Were proud to be the home of the most diverse content offering in streaming. Watch Tom Ryan, president and CEO of streaming, explain how we’re helping viewers across all generations find their favorite entertainment and discover even more new content to love on ParamountPlus and our other services."
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"We make content that truly resonates. Watch our CEO Robert M. Bakish discuss how we're delivering across all platforms."
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"The premiere of the highly anticipated ParamountPlus original, Halo, was supported by the biggest cross-company campaign we’ve ever done. To expand the franchise's existing fan base, the campaign leveraged every corner of our portfolio with a launch day takeover across all #Paramount platforms and channels. Adele Plumail, SVP cross-company marketing, takes us inside the campaign to make #Halo a streaming hit"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"Wishing the best of luck to our Academy Award Best Documentary Feature nominees  The #Paramount family is incredibly proud to have two nominees in the documentary space with Showtime Networks Inc.’s ATTICA and MTV Documentary Films ASCENSION. Below, members of the teams behind each film share their thoughts on the significance of this moment for all involved: ATTICA is a searing and visceral experience. The visionary team behind this extraordinary and frankly, astounding, film have laid out the story of these tragic 4 days in American history in such a methodical and powerful way. The build throughout the film, culminating in one of the most incredible endings in any documentary we’ve ever seen is truly spellbinding. We were honored to be on this ride with the filmmakers and are so proud to see the film heralded in the manner it deserves. Who better than one of the most iconic American filmmakers in Stanley Nelson and co-director Traci A. Curry to do justice to a story that’s never been fully nor truthfully been told before. — Vinnie Malhotra, EVP nonfiction programming, Showtime.  The nomination is very important to the organization because when you say MTV people tend to think music and kids. ... Everybody says to me, ‘This project is perfect for you because it’s about a band or this singer.’ But we are the documentary division of MTV and we have [documentaries] about all different subjects, for all age groups, from all different countries.” — Sheila Nevins, executive producer, MTV Documentary Films."
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"We asked the ParamountPlus team about their experience expanding the #streaming service in its first year. Here's what they said. We had this huge uptick in original content: premium movies, the expanded sports league coverage, all the great new shows. That’s led to greater integration opportunities and visibility on our partner platforms. — Lesley Rose, VP, Distribution Partnerships, Paramount Streaming"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"MTV is teaming up with Campus Vote Project to help college students bring early voting to their campuses. Building off the success of Vote Early Day and the brand’s long history of voter engagement, the Voting Early is Easier campaign is designed to increase access to the ballot box for young voters. The vast majority of young people actually are already registered to vote. And the problem that we really needed to solve was how do we close the gap between voter registration and actual turnout," said Brianna Cayo Cotter, senior vice president of social impact at MTV Entertainment Group. Learn more about MTV’s efforts to engage young voters."
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"For decades, our programming has told stories that matter and we continue to believe in the power of entertainment to create meaningful change. We’re proud to be listed in the 2022 GLAAD Where We Are on TV Report for the diverse representation in scripted and reality programming across our portfolio, with a special shout out to Showtime Networks Inc., which was recognized as the most LGBTQ-inclusive cable network with the most regular or recurring characters that identify as LGBTQ.  Showtime has such a history of boundary-pushing storytelling. We understand that great TV is not homogenous and it’s inclusive of a lot of perspectives – Showtime has always been on the cutting edge of that,” says MICHAEL ENGLEMAN, Chief Marketing Officer at Showtime. Read more about why the cable network believes in pushing boundaries"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"#Paramount, as one powerful company, is far greater than the sum of its parts. With the power of our people, the power of our content, and the power of our platforms, we are built to grow and lead our industry forward. #WeAreParamount"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"There are so many talented women across the #Paramount family who work to bring fans their favorite news and entertainment. We celebrate these women, their accomplishments, and their contributions on-screen and behind-the-scenes. Anchor Norah O’Donnell and president and co-head Wendy McMahon are just a few of the dozens of women who are key to the success of CBS News. This #WomensHistoryMonth, girls everywhere should know: if you can #SeeHer, you can be her. #InternationalWomensDay"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"It’s time to celebrate a full year of ParamountPlus! In just one year, the #streaming service has expanded its content, reach, and subscribers. The product wouldn’t be what it is without the amazing people behind it. Hear from some of the team about what it was like to work on the launch of #ParamountPlus and all the exciting things to come: Our content offering has really expanded dramatically since the launch of the service. —Tammy Henault, SVP, Consumer Marketing, ParamountPlus I think the exciting part about launching this year has been seeing local language activations around the world, seeing this brand expressed in Spanish, in the Nordic languages and on every continent has been extraordinary. —Karishma Rahman Azmat, Director, International Marketing: Studios and Streaming, Paramount The way so many groups across Paramount just continue to be excited about our future and put in hours towards the success of streaming and ParamountPlus. That is dedication at its core and a testament to he kind of people who work here. —Kira Harrell, PMP, CSM, Vice President, Project Management, Paramount Streaming We’re just getting started. We’re doubling and tripling down on our content offerings, across every genre and every programming vertical. And I'm so excited to see what the next year, two years, three years brings for the service. —Ryan Lombardini, Social Director, Originals Campaign Strategy, ParamountPlus I'm super excited about our upcoming content slate. We have the ‘Fairly Odd Parents,’ ‘Star Trek: Strange New Worlds,’ and ‘The Offer’ for Godfather fans. —Chris Mehl, Director, Content Strategy (Kids & Family), ParamountPlus"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"We're amazed by the hard work and dedication of our employees, who prove every day what's possible through collaboration, creativity and passion. From creating and supporting our content, to building our growing streaming business, to developing a workplace culture of diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging—Paramount employees are creating the future of our company. Thank you for all that you do! #NationalEmployeeAppreciationDay #WeAreParamount"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"Our CEO Robert M. Bakish explains the significance of #Paramount on CNBC. Watch"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"Generations of creative hard-working employees, as well as the passion of our fans and audiences around the world, have made it possible for us to define excellence in entertainment. In honor of our legacy and our future, we are proud to continue our work together as Paramount. #WeAreParamount #Paramount"
"Paramount";"LinkedIn Post";"International Transgender Day of Visibility is a celebration of the lives and accomplishments of transgender people everywhere. Hear from members of Proud, Paramount's employee resource group devoted to the development of LGBTQ+ employees and allies, on the importance of allyship and working at a company that champions belonging: We have an opportunity to set a good example and show [audiences] different kinds of families and different kinds of people so it's normalized because we all know that this is a normal part about being a human. And if you don't see representation, how do you know what other people are like? Ryan Brodsky, Production Coordinator, Nickelodeon Animation Allies can really help by learning and understanding what LGBTQ people are dealing with right now. … Learn what to say. Learn what not to say. Just learn to be respectful." Addie Chernow, TD/Director, CBS News Minnesota It's important for me to be at a company that champions belonging because I matter. My voice matters, who I am matters, and in the way I choose to show up—in the room, at the table, in whatever space—I'm accepted. Lauren Hamilton, Social Strategy Manager, CBS Be there for us all year round! It's nice to know that we are actually heard, not just on Pride Month or Trans Day Of Visibility, but knowing that we are there together for each other makes us realize that we are not alone in the day-to-day challenges that come our way. Ally Castle, Make Up Artist, CBS Evening News with Norah O’Donnell It's great being a part of an organization that promotes inclusivity, as well as having a job where I can promote content that mirrors all aspects of society with no limits. Brett Brown, Director Affiliate Sales & Distribution, Showtime #TransDayOfVisibility  #WeAreParamount"